We've continued to see an economy that
holds up.
>> I don't think that we can underestimate
just how important the wealth effect has
been allowing this overall economy to
levitate.
>> When we really look under the hood, we
are seeing this broadening out.
>> We probably are going to have to go and
look at our Q1 GDP forecast and and
boost those.
>> At these levels, one can expect maybe a
cut or maybe none.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and An
Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now coming
into Wednesday following the president's
prime time address.
>> Our nation is back bigger, better,
richer, and stronger than ever before.
Inflation is plummeting. Incomes are
rising fast. An unfortunate ruling from
the United States Supreme Court. It just
came down. The S&P hit 7,000 where it
wasn't supposed to do it for many years.
The golden age of America is upon us.
President Donald Trump defending his
economic record as Fed officials
continue to get behind a prolonged
pause. The market is bracing for today's
blockbuster earnings report. Nvidia
coming up after the close.
>> And we really can focus on Nvidia
because after 107 minutes of the
president's speech, we don't have that
much new policy to talk about. So really
we are focused very much on Nvidia and
how high the bar is for them to really
cross the threshold and beat given the
fact that they have risen those shares
just 3.4% since the fourth quarter of
last year. Why that has been the
question perennially given the $650
billion of capital expenditure planned
for this year for hyperscalers alone.
When it comes to hyperscalers, this also
did make it into the president's an hour
and 48 minute speech last night. He was
talking about AI data data centers and
the demand for it how it's going to
drive electricity utility bills up and
he says don't worry these companies the
tech companies were the one to help pay
for that and this gets at the heart of
what the president really needed to
address yesterday and didn't spend as
much time in it as people thought and
you could see that in polls almost 710
Americans say that Trump is focusing on
the wrong problems the United States
that was an immediate poll done by CNN
after the state of the union Americans
they don't really care everyday
Americans all the time about the S&P 500
or the Dow Jones where it's trading.
They care about where beef prices are
trading and they care about where their
electricity bills are and that is
crucial for the midterm elections.
>> The biggest asset that party has right
now is time. It is the end of February
and the last two months have felt like a
lifetime. Imagine how much longer it
will take to get to November. They've
got time on their side. One, two, the
president's polling polling really
poorly on affordability. But the real
headline here is that no one is polling
well. This came from the ABC Washington
Post Ipsos poll. Americans are split on
who they trust to better handle reducing
the cost of living. Equal shares trust
Trump and Democrats in Congress. That's
a problem for both parties.
>> It's a problem when you have inflation
that has climbed so much under Biden,
under President Trump. It's come down in
terms of the pace of price increases,
but the year-over-year increase since
the pandemic has been really tremendous.
How do you deal with this? You say time.
This is the reason why I'm surprised we
didn't get policy prescriptions like
capping interest rates or some of the
other uh aspects that President Trump
has floated because they have time. But
what that does is it hampers how much
they can raise tariffs or potentially
some of the more punitive measures that
are also hallmarks of the agenda. So
real question here on what they can do.
It is peculiar that we didn't hear any
new policy prescriptions and the
president was really just in full-on
marketing mode to come out and say look
what I have already done. But all of
this is behind us. All this is already
baked into the market. All of this the
consumers know is coming down the
pipeline. What happened to potentially a
state of emergency when it comes to
housing? All we heard from him is
basically the same. If you're an
institutional investor, you should not
be buying up the housing market right
now. It's not fair for everyday
Americans. So, that is why this is very
peculiar. And when it comes to the
Democrats, they came out swinging after
in terms of Governor Spanberger clearly
focus on affordability.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Equity futures doing okay.
No real reaction to that address
overnight. Equity futures positive by
about a tenth of 1%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Julian Emanuel
of Everor as investors shake off AI
worries. the former senior White House
trade adviser Kelly Shaw on the
president's tariff agenda and Angela
Zeno of CFR ahead of key earnings from
Nvidia. We begin this hour with
President Trump addressing the nation.
The roaring economy is roaring like
never before. One of the primary reasons
for our country's stunning economic
turnaround were tariffs. Mortgage rates
are the lowest in four years and falling
fast. American oil production is up by
more than 600,000 barrels a day.
Democrats are destroying our country,
but we've stopped it just in the nick of
time, didn't we?
>> Joining us now to discuss someone who
sat through all of that, Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall. Morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, domestic
issues remained at the forefront of
President Trump's State of the Union
address last night in a bid to convince
Americans the economy is in better shape
than polling tells us voters feel it is.
And the president really seemed to focus
on touting policy achievements that have
already been enacted, mainly those tax
cuts under the one big beautiful bill.
As it becomes apparent, this White House
is going to be banking on larger refunds
as we head into the midterms. As you
guys were already discussing, we didn't
get a lot of new policy proposals.
Though the president did announce a plan
that would help workers without
employerbacked retirement savings
accounts, so perhaps we'll get some more
details there. but it really seemed to
focus on calling on Congress to codify
policy proposals that we've already
heard, including the president's healthc
care framework that seeks to shift
federal subsidies from insurance
companies to American consumers and his
call to ban institutional investors from
buying single family homes. The thing
is, a lot of these proposals do not have
the full support of Republicans in
Congress. President Trump also made
clear that tariffs will remain at the
centerpiece of his economic agenda.
going on in that speech to threaten
trading partners if they pull back on
any of their pre-negotiated trade
agreements as some of those Supreme
Court justices that have struck down his
broad-based AIPA tariffs were sitting
front and center in that chamber last
night. Now, you mentioned that new Ipsos
polling out earlier this week. That does
spell trouble for both parties. But I
will mention that there is that one poll
in there that 57% of US adults
disapprove of the president's handling
of the economy really highlighting some
of those headwinds that the president
was facing as he headed into last night.
John, while domestic issues seem to be
the theme at the urging of top White
House officials for the president to
stay on that message, of course, foreign
policy has been dominating the
conversation here in Washington. The
president making some headlines when it
comes to rising tensions between the US
and Iran as he still has not ruled out
that potential that we could see
military action.
>> That threat still lingers. Tyler, it's
good to see you. Thank you. Tyler
Kendall down in Washington DC. Quick
programming note. 8:30 Eastern time.
Look out for this USR Ambassador Jameson
Grid joining the program to break down
just where we are with tariffs right
now.
>> Well, right now we're at a 10% tariff
level. Even though the president did
truth that it's going to be 15%, there's
no directive yet for that. So it's at
10% and I think we just want clarity
right now from Ambassador Greer.
>> That conversation a few hours away.
Here's a view on Wall Street this
morning. Julian Emanuel of Everor
writing, "The president's speech last
night celebrated American values
intensified the partisan divide in
Washington and maintained the
uncertainty around the situation with
Iran." Julian joins us now for more.
Julian, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> I read your recent note. Despite
valuations, despite geopolitical
anxiety, despite the political anxiety,
despite a series of blowups, the index
has been really, really resilient. What
does that tell you?
>> It tells us that, you know, the
backdrop, the macro backdrop in a year
where we're getting better earnings
growth, it's likely going to be double
digits when all is said and done in
2026. Long-term yields staying very,
very, you know, sedate, particularly
when you think about the rest of the
world. uh stimulus and the potential for
rate cuts. It says that stocks are
likely going higher.
>> Now that we've passed the State of the
Union, is Nvidia the big event of this
week? I mean, how big of a sign of a
market moving event is this going to be?
>> It's very big. I I mean what's
fascinating to us is is you know we're
comfortable with being contrarians and
when we came into 2026 we felt that you
know being overweight the AIcentric
names and themes was really in consensus
and that changed very quickly. The the
mood around technology remains very
guarded. the positioning remains very
light, frankly, and a lot of that has to
do with the the buildup around Iran. And
so, you know, look, we know that the
report today will be good. They will
beat on the metrics. It's just a
question of how the shares will respond.
Uh, and frankly, the market is poised
for likely a a good share price
response.
>> So, I wonder if what's good for Nvidia
is bad for everything else. We've seen
this rotation in through the rest of the
economy at a time when there's a lot of
anxiety about the labor market where
you're seeing those pressures. We got
Home Depot yesterday. We got Lowe's this
morning raising the uh spectre of
uncertainty really pressuring consumers.
At what point is Nvidia a
counterindicator to the economic cycle?
And could their earnings reverse some of
the broadening out that we've seen? Uh
look and again think about the backdrop
that we've had you you the the leading
sectors this year energy industrials the
deep cyclicals but also consumer
staples. Uh so in terms of uh the action
and the interpretation of earnings all
is well except you know you've had these
occasional blowups. Uh but in our mind,
if anything, Nvidia is likely to, and
remember, the public hasn't really
soured on technology because the labor
market, as difficult as it is to
actually fathom, uh with all the policy
changes of the last year, is still
relatively strong and and that bodess
well really across the S&P 500.
>> You mentioned Iran. The president spent
a lot of time last night talking about
this. Do you think that this is going to
be potentially next catalyst for the
market?
>> There's no question about it. And and
what's interesting is is uh you know
sometimes there is an eye roll when we
talk about uh options, but actually the
options market is telling you right now
that investors are very hedged for a
more challenging outcome uh in Iran. You
look at uh the prediction markets, the
mark, they think something is going to
happen. Well, I've got news for you. uh
the skew the price of downside puts
versus upside calls in the triple Q's is
as wide as it was during the trough of
the April tariff tantrum. And so very
contrarian and the same thing in terms
of bullishness in the oil market as
bullish as it was when oil was $120 a
barrel when Russia invaded Ukraine
initially.
>> So the market is screaming military
intervention not diplomatic offramp.
>> That's right. And and so for us, the
surprise, I mean, our base cases, we we
think there will be some uh either
off-ramp or limited military engagement
because think about it. We we heard it
last night. We hear it all the time. If
the oil price spikes further, you are
losing the war on the affordability
issue, and that means you're going to
lose the midterms. So, that's really,
you know, a a a least desired outcome.
The good news so far is that rates have
behaved that we've got 10-year bond
yields back down to 4%. What's the
signal an equity guy like you takes from
the move that we've seen in fixed
income?
>> Well, it it's this this dual, you know,
thought that that uh the um you know,
the violence under the surface. You've
had crashes in software, you've had
crashes in silver, you've had crashes in
in in alt investment managers. um that
the the message from all of this is that
the credit market is disturbed and maybe
we're having a growth scare. But
frankly, if you look at the broad credit
market, it still behaves very nicely
even though there's pockets of distress.
Julian, it's good to see you. You're
going to stick with us. Julian Emanuel
there of other core yields this morning
by just a few basis points. The tenure
at the moment 4.0 5%. Looking at the
broader bond market at the front end of
the curve, twos by two basis points to
347. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's catch up with
Yahara for more. Hey Yahra.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump
delivering a record 1 hour and 47
minutes State of the Union address last
night. The speech was heavy on his
economic policy with the president
touting falling food and gasoline
prices. Trump didn't offer many new
policy proposals, though he did promise
a $1,000 retirement savings match for
workers without 401ks.
Virginia Governor Abigail Spanberger
delivering the Democratic response to
the State of the Union, asking viewers
whether they felt the president was
addressing their core needs. Spanberger
arguing he is not, pointing to Trump's
efforts to implement global tariffs,
federal immigration agents killing
American citizens, and escalating
tensions with Iran, Russia, and China.
And we are seeing shares of Lowe's
falling three and a half% in the
pre-market. The company reporting fourth
quarter earnings that beat estimates its
fullear adjusted EPS guidance however
falling short of forecast low CEO saying
quote while the housing macro remains
pressured we are focused on directing
what is in our control brief John
>> Yhara thank you appreciate the update
more from Yhierra later this hour up
next on the program selling Americans on
the economy
>> inflation is plummeting incomes are
rising fast mortgage rates are the
lowest in four years
>> we did not hear the truth from our
president. Everyday Americans are paying
the price.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Adam Posen
of the Peterson Institute from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
It's the schedule today. Later on this
morning, earnings from TJX. Should get
them in the next hour or so. Later on
this afternoon, numbers from Nvidia.
Don't forget Salesforce either. That one
in the mix disrupted by the AI fears.
That stock has been kicked about quite a
lot over the past few weeks. More on
that a little bit later in the program.
Equity futures on the S&P doing okay.
Positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P. On
the Nasdaq up by 0.2 to some
outperformance on the Russell small caps
higher by 0.4 for Anderson this morning
selling Americans on the economy.
>> Inflation is plummeting. Incomes are
rising fast. Mortgage rates are the
lowest in four years. Beef, which was
very high, is starting to come down
significantly. This hold on a little
while. We get it down.
>> We did not hear the truth from our
president. His reckless trade policies
have forced American families to pay
more than $1,700 each in tariff costs.
Every day, Americans are paying the
price.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump defending his economic
record in a marathon state of the union.
According to a recent poll from Ipsos,
Americans are split on who can better
handle the cost of living crisis,
including 33% who say they trust neither
Trump nor congressional Democrats.
Joining us now to discuss is Adam Poston
of the Peterson Institute. Adam, a warm
welcome back to the program as always.
Sir, are affordability issues set to get
worse and not better in the year ahead?
>> I think they are, John. Thanks for
having me back. And I feel the first
time in my life, I feel a little bit of
sympathy for Donald Trump because
there's just not that much he can do on
affordability.
um he would have to try to intervene
directly into particular markets that
matter like housing or food which he's
not averse to doing but even the
Congress is not willing to do and it's
not clear those would be more than for
show and I think there remains a
headwind excuse me a tailwind to prices
because the labor market's a lot
stronger than people think because the
Fed is not as tight as people think
because of the tariff tariffs and in the
background the migration issue is
starting to hit. The other point though
is as Lisa and Marie and everybody said
he didn't make any major budget
proposals. He didn't make any major
policy proposals of any kind. And so
against my prior forecast that there was
going to be a handout. Maybe inflation
will be a little lower than I feared
because he's not going to blow out the
budget quite as much.
>> But Adam, couldn't he do something when
it comes to affordability, when it comes
to tariffs specifically? just let the
Supreme Court's rulings stand and don't
now have new deals of 10 or 15% with
122s.
>> No, you're right, Emory. I I didn't
mention that because it's something he's
clearly not willing to do. Um he could
take down tariffs unilaterally and just
since basically every ally we trade
with, including Canada, including
Europe, including Japan, including
Korea, uh has lower tariffs on us now
than we have on them. And as Governor
Spanberger pointed out, none of the
things he claimed about manufacturing or
jobs or trade deficits were true. Um,
some of the things he said were true,
but those weren't. Um, and so, yeah, he
could reduce prices, but even that
wouldn't that would be a great idea and
it'd be a good for the country and good
for the average working American, but it
wouldn't necessarily translate into
price drops. So, as all of you have been
saying, a decline in the rate of
inflation isn't the same as seeing
prices for things people spend on
declining. You need real income growth
for that.
>> Adam, the one thing that struck me as a
potential market moving influence was
his discussion of tariffs as reshaping
the way we pay income taxes. In other
words, no income taxes and increase
tariffs to account for the bulk of all
income for the nation. He went on to
say, "As time goes by, I believe the
tariffs paid for by foreign countries
will, like in the past, talking about
the late 1700s, 1800s, substantially
replace the modern-day system of income
tax. Is there anything that you take
from that that could be codified? Do you
see that as a feasible path forward?"
>> It's not feasible, Lisa. I mean, it's
just wrong. Um, when the US government
was running on taxes, just like some
subsaran African and Central American
countries today have tariffs as a big
part of their tax revenue, it's because
they can't collect taxes in a more
efficient way. All they've got are
troops at the border and because the
society and the economies are not very
welldeveloped. A tariff system doesn't
work. It also isn't paid for by the
foreign countries. No matter how many
times the president says that, no matter
how many times his people try to attack
research, it's universally recognized.
It's just right there in the data. Now,
how much of that's the consumer versus
companies is a question. How much that
becomes inflation is a question. But
there's absolutely no question. It is
the American purchasers of the inputs
and of the products who pay the tariffs.
But finally, even with the Supreme Court
ruling, tariff revenues are going to go
down because if tariffs
stay up, then people change behavior.
They start buying more American products
or they start foregoing foreign products
or they start substituting in ways that
are not good or over time you bring some
stuff home even though it's less
competitive. And so what happens is you
end up spending less on foreign goods.
Now, that's not a good thing, but and
yes, from a revenue point of view, it's
definitely not a good thing because then
if you're spending less on foreign
goods, there's less tariffs. And so, my
view is we're already well past peak
tariff revenues, even if the president
were to let them lapse.
>> Adam, just a final question, just to go
back to the summer of 2024. You warned
ahead of that election, given the
policies that were being proposed that
this Federal Reserve might have to
prepare the market and the country for
higher interest rates. they cut interest
rates subsequently in the year ahead.
Adam, give where given where things
stand and your revision to your outlook
on inflation, where are you now on Fed
policy?
>> John, thanks for asking. If if it turns
out that the president doesn't put in a
budget request for bailouts and and
handouts to people ahead of the midterm
elections, I'll be surprised. But then I
have to reduce my happily my inflation
forecast from 4% to 3.5 or less on CPI
at the end of the year. But I also think
that the Fed, as a large number of FOMC
members have indicated over the last
several weeks, the Fed is not going
forward with an easing bias. They should
not be going forward with an easing
bias. The labor market is much stronger
than people think. The pain is real for
people, but that's different from us
saying that there's a cyclical weakness
in the labor market. You have to
separate those two things. And in that
situation, and as your guest Emanuel
mentioned, credit markets are holding up
pretty darn well, and a broom credit
remains pretty available. So, I don't
think the Fed's going to be cutting as
many times this year, even before we get
into the independence politics as
markets currently project.
>> Adam, it's always good to see you. Thank
you, sir. Thanks for your time. Adam
Posen there of the Peterson Institute.
Judian Emanuel of Avacore still with us.
Judian, let's talk about the consumer
and how that's being priced in the
equity market. We've got discretionary
down by close to 4% for the year so far.
Staples up 15. Is there an economic
story in there or is that all AI?
>> It is very largely AI frankly. And if
you think about it, so when we did our
foundational work on AI, we uh really
digested what the job impact would be
across sectors. And actually when
thinking about it right, the least
impacted sectors, metals and mining,
agriculture, consumer staples, all of
the sectors that have ripped year to
date, the most impacted sectors,
financials, software, the legal
profession, all of the places where
you've seen tape bombs on and off. and
and so you know to us this is also
typical behavior that you get in the
first quarter of the new year that kind
of rotation but there isn't really in
our mind a broader message here
>> financials and the banks were a
consensus overweight into the new year
has that changed for the year ahead for
you
>> uh we've had it an in inline rating look
they have been expensive they remain
expensive and obviously again uh you
know while we don't see anything
systemic. This is an environment where
we're shooting first and asking
questions later. We'd rather not be in
areas where there's going to be more
shooting.
>> Jillian, it's good to see you. Thank
you, sir. Jillian Manuel there of
Evercore on the equity market and the
financials was a consensus overweight
for many of you coming into the new year
and that sector's been beaten up. I
think one day, one session in the last
week, the worst session we've seen going
back to April of last year.
>> Yeah. because they could ostensibly be
subject to a report saying that actually
Anthropic came out with a financial
planning tool that eradicated the need
for the big three banks in the United
States and so people want to get away
from that because evidently the firing
range is not an attractive place to be
>> and the shooting hasn't stopped just
yet. Yeah, clearly equity futures on the
S&P at the moment positive by a few ten
of 1% on the S&P 500. Up next, we'll
catch up with the former senior White
House trade adviser Kellyan Shaw as
President Trump looks to push his tariff
agenda. Plus, Shihara drops by. She's
got your morning movers. Workday shares
falling, adding more fuel to the AI
concerns. That stock is down in the
pre-market by close to 10%. Some big big
moves at a single name level. The index
stood around 2% from all-time highs.
From New York City, you're watching
Blimbo TV.
The S&P continuing to chop at the index
level. Still within 2% of alltime highs.
Futures this morning up another 210 of
1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ up by 0.2
also up by 0.4 on the Russell. Chopped
from Monday through Tuesday. Staples
leading on Monday. Discretionary leading
on Tuesday. And here we are so far this
Wednesday morning. Things could change
quickly as you all know in the bond
market. Tuesday 10:30 shaping up as
follows. 10 still around 4% 4.05 yields
up by two basis points at the long end
of the curve on 10 and 30s. Take a note
of what's happening in Japan. The new
prime minister selecting some very very
doubbish policy makers for the board at
the BOJ may be pushing them to not hike
interest rates in the face of increased
government spending.
>> Yeah, this was the reason why yesterday
you saw the yen really lose ground and
people start to wonder, okay, are we
going to reignite the sort of steepening
yield curve trade based on Japan? today,
the appointment of two reflationary
members to the Bank of Japan's uh board.
So, even though Takahuchi was thought to
be non-interventionist, maybe that
narrative is changing just a bit on the
margins.
>> Yeah, it's funny to me that everyone
freaks out about what's happening in
America about the prospect of Treasury
working more closely with the Federal
Reserve. You're seeing it play out right
now in Japan. It's happening. There's
your case study real time.
>> And it's great for equities. That's the
amazing thing because if you look at
Japanese equities and if you talk to any
investment manager, they are eager to go
over to Japan. So, it's a vote of
confidence at least on one hand. Then
you look at the bond market, you say,
"Sh, maybe don't show that to me."
>> Yeah, bonds down, yields up. The NK
still rallying. Three hours away from
the opening power. The cash open just
around the corner. Let's get you some
morning movers. Yhira has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Low signaling the the housing
market isn't improving anytime soon.
Shares are falling 3% in the pre-market
after the home improvement chain uh gave
a weaker thanex expected fullear sales
outlook echoing the issues we heard from
Home Depot that customers just aren't
taking on big projects due to all the
uncertainty in the housing market.
Though Home Depot shares did end the day
up 2% yesterday after its uh comparable
sales beat. Meanwhile, uh I never
thought I'd be watching a Workday
earnings report so closely, but here we
are given the environment. Workday stock
had been down 40% year to date, heading
into earnings on concerns that AI will
disrupt enterprise software demand. And
the outlook and the software outlook it
gave is only adding to that anxiety. The
CEO did try and calm fears saying that
Anthropic, OpenAI, and uh Google all use
Workday, but those comments not enough
to ease fears. Shares are down more than
10% in the pre-market. And we are also
seeing HP down 5 a 12% in the pre-market
after warning its profits will likely
land at the low end of its forecast. The
company is seeing strong demand for its
AI PCs, but that momentum is being
offset by higher memory costs and tariff
headwinds echoing what we heard from the
likes of Dell and Cisco warning that the
big memory crunch will eat into margins.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara a little bit later this
hour. On our radar this morning,
President Donald Trump pushing
hyperscalers to cover energy costs for
data centers.
We're telling the major tech companies
that they have the obligation to provide
for their own power needs. They can
build their own power plants as part of
their factory so that no one's prices
will go up and in many cases prices of
electricity will go down for the
community.
>> The administration reportedly in talks
with companies including Microsoft and
Alphabet about signing pledges.
Elsewhere, Warner Brothers Discovery
saying a new offer from Paramount
Skydance could top its current deal with
Netflix. The buyout offer worth $31 a
share is enough to bring both sides back
to the table and a final winner has been
declared. And finally, a massive $112
billion gap in trade data suggesting
China may be dodging US tariffs on a
record scale. American manufacturers
warning this quote tariff cheating is an
existential threat
>> because ultimately if you're being
charged those tariffs and your
competitors aren't, well, guess what?
You're at a competitive disadvantage is
the same time uh that you could
potentially be legally liable. That $12
billion gap between what China reported
as well as what the US and US customs
said came into this country highlights
just how important it is to really get a
handle on this. The Federal Reserve
actually at the time did research that
showed about twothirds of that came from
evasion of these tariffs. So again, it
goes back to this issue of how do you
deal with revenues that are a bit more
slippery and given some of the
competitive uh landscape uh in the
United States
>> and the gap is getting bigger because
the steeper the tariff rates the more
cheating that is going to fuel and
that's what we see. Too bad the
president didn't have a moment to
address China directly head on.
>> Wasn't that strange? and talk about the
cheating that is going on and the state
subsidies that China gives to their
companies and all the concerns that you
have in Washington in a bipartisan
fashion when it comes to Beijing. He
didn't address China head-on once.
>> Why do you think that is?
>> I think it's cuz he's going there in
April and he doesn't want to rock the
boat and he's probably trying to get
some things done and they're dealing
with tariff rates right now given the
Supreme Court struck down AIPA. But this
is a president that many voted for him,
frankly, because of the rhetoric when he
first started campaigning when he
walked, you know, came down that
escalator just a few blocks from here.
And now he didn't address China headon.
Very strange.
>> That meeting in China just a few months
away. Let's turn back to that State of
the Union. President Trump remaining
defiant that his tariff agenda will
continue despite the Supreme Court's
ruling.
>> They're a little more complex, but
they're actually probably better.
Congressional action will not be
necessary. It's already time-t tested
and approved. And as time goes by, I
believe the tariffs paid for by foreign
countries will, like in the past,
substantially replace the modern-day
system of income tax.
>> Former senior White House trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw writing the following. It
may not be a straight cut in pace, but I
expect at least some tariffs to increase
to 15% in the coming days. Kellyanne
joins us now for more. Kellyanne,
welcome to the program. help us
understand where we are. It was 10, then
over the weekend it was 15, and then we
came into the week and it's 10. What is
it and what's it going to be?
>> Well, right now we're it's a hurry up
and wait. So, it's technically a 10%
tariff that went into effect at 12:01
a.m. yesterday, but I do understand from
the administration that they are still
looking to implement the president's 15%
tariff increase. Part of the challenge
is that section 122, it's a really wonky
statute. It's never been used. It does
allow you to carve some countries out.
It allows you to carve out some goods.
It's not really clear that it allows you
to differentiate between countries in
terms of the overall tariff rate. So
once you get to 15, you're actually
increasing tariffs above some of these
agreed trade agreements. And you're also
putting tariffs on countries like
Australia, the UK, and a lot of Western
Hem countries. So it's it's a little
more complicated to work out legally. I
think that's part of the delay, but I'm
still expecting that 15% tariff
increase.
>> So, if the rate is higher than what this
administration has agreed to with some
trading partners and they want trading
partners to abide by those agreements,
are we going to get carveouts?
>> So, I've actually talked to some of our
trading partners about this and you
know, some of them are are a little
concerned that they're going to end up
with a tariff rate that's above the
agreed rate. Uh, and they're talking to
the administration about that. So, I
think the administration is going to
look for some flexibilities in terms of
whatever proclamation comes out next.
Uh, but, you know, they're they're going
to have to do so within legal
constraints. They just had AIPA tariffs
struck down. They're going to be really
conscious of not wanting to have these
ones enjoined or struck down, too.
>> Well, are 122s legal? They have never
been used either in the past.
>> Well, it's certainly a law on the books.
And if you look at the CIT decision that
initially struck down the tariffs, one
of the bases was because the court
thought that the president should have
used 122 in the first place. So there's
certainly scope to use section 122. It's
just really a matter of how you
implement it. And I think that's really
what the administration's wanting to
make sure they're doing to make sure
that these tariffs don't get struck down
again. There was a tension yesterday,
Kellyanne, between this focus on
affordability and this focus on tariffs
and trying to explain how tariffs are
actually structurally going to be better
longer term because it could potentially
reduce income taxes and other aspects
that consumers pay. I just wonder how
capped how hampered the president is
from increasing either the 122s to 15%
or implementing some of the others based
on the affordability aspects of his
agenda.
>> Yeah, I I think it's a great question.
And I mean really what's going on here
is the administration looks at the data.
They look at the tariffs and they say
that uh look, we haven't seen
significant price increases on the backs
of some of these in some cases really
high tariff rates. We haven't seen some
of the economic catastrophes that
everyone predicted would happen if the
administration put in a universal
baseline tariff. And so this idea that
tariffs are leading to this
affordability crisis doesn't really
register, but it does register in the
minds of voters. And you have a
situation in which voters are linking
tariff increases to price increases and
to the fact that they're having trouble
affording grocery store energy prices
and a lot of things that voters will
vote on in terms of how they're feeling
about the economy. And so the
administration has some work to do in
terms of trying to message this to the
American people going into the midterms.
But I I don't see the administration
significantly pivoting. You heard the
president doubling down last night that
tariffs were a core part of his economic
policy. We might see some tinkering on
the margins, but I I don't expect a
full-scale reversal of any of this
policy.
>> There's also a question of what the AIPA
ruling by the Supreme Court does to
international agreements with some of
our trade partners given that certainly
the European Union has already pushed
back. We're going to be speaking with
Ambassador Jameson Greer, the trade
representative for the United States
later this morning. I'm just wondering
what you're wondering about what your
biggest questions are for him.
>> Yeah, I and certainly seeing the EU hit
pause on its consideration of that
implementing legislation was
predictable. I think the EU in some
cases has been looking for a reason to
kind of walk away from this deal for
some time. The US implemented back in
August. The EU hasn't cut a single
tariff line since that turnberry
agreement. So, this isn't a surprise,
but I do expect that to escalate. I
think in terms of what to ask Ambassador
Greer, I'm curious about when we'll see
some of these section 301
investigations, what the tariff
structure might look like, whether it's
going to cover all trading partners or
just some trading partners. Really
trying to get a sense of what the next
five to six months look like as
companies are trying to navigate this
new tariff landscape.
>> Let's talk about the next two months. So
Amarie mentioned that meeting in China
between the president and the Chinese
leader. Kellyanne, do you sense that
he's lost some leverage here given how
constrained he might be now at home and
the point that over the last year that
China has run a record trade surplus
even with these tariffs?
>> Yeah, I I think it's a good question as
well, especially going into the
President Trump, President Xi visit. But
I guess my big takeaway is long-term the
United States already has tariff
leverage over China. They're doing all
of these 301 investigations to get more
tariff authority over other countries,
but we have that existing 301. We also
have an ongoing 301 investigation into
China's compliance with the phase 1
deal. And there's a host of other levers
the United States has from financial
tools to export controls and other
mechanisms to really get leverage over
China going into some of these
discussions. I think my base case for an
outcome is pretty low to begin with. I
think the administration's really
looking to just keep a stable
relationship between President Trump and
President Xi and the trade arrangement
that they negotiated in Busousan. Not
expecting any massive deliverables
there. So, I think it's a pretty steady
state with China remarkably, but it it
is a good question as to what some of
this means in terms of the president's
negotiations with other trading partners
where it's not as clear what tariff
authority he has to to threaten some of
these big foreign policy related
tariffs. Kelly and we have tariffs on
them, but do we have influence? Do you
sense we still have influence?
>> I I do, but I do think the next few days
are a bit rocky until we do get some
more certainty over what the president's
tariff agenda is going to look like, the
authorities that he's going to use. I
think the relationships with most of our
trading partners will be stabilized. you
know, when it comes to the USChina
relationship, there's a lot of soft
power at play, and I think that's what
you're alluding to. And certainly having
a court decision which goes against one
of the president's key policies isn't
the best thing going into this meeting.
But at the same time, I I don't think
it's devastating. And I think there's a
really long time between now and March
30th when the president goes in terms of
actions that can be taken. That's a
lifetime in terms of the trade agenda
and the negotiating agenda. So we'll
we'll see what happens in the next
couple of weeks.
>> Hey Kellyanne, good to see you. Thank
you. The former senior White House trade
advisor Kellyan Shaw on the latest with
trade a record surplus with the rest of
the world even with these massive
tariffs from the US on China.
>> And there's this extra added wrinkle
with uh the German chancellor over in
China speaking with Xiinping right now
after meetings with other world leaders.
how much influence China's courting with
other uh former airspile allies of the
United States.
>> And the other problem this
administration has which we haven't seen
the data on is how much China is going
through other nations that then have
boosted exports into the United States.
This idea of trans shipment y we need to
see the data on that because China is
still importing to the United States
maybe just under the Chinese flag.
>> Futures this morning positive by two10
of 1% on the S&P just grinding higher.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara with more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. In his State of the Union
address, President Donald Trump praising
the operation of Venezuela that captured
former President Nicolas Maduro. The
president saying the US has received
more than 80 million barrels of oil from
Venezuela in the last month. He also
awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor
to one of the helicopter pilots involved
in the raid.
UBS upping its warning about private
credit default rates. Strategists saying
default rates could surge as high as 15%
if AI triggers a quote aggressive
disruption among corporate borrowers.
UBS's initial report less than a month
ago warned of a 13% default rate. And
HSBC shares touching an all-time high in
London trading. The company reporting
earnings that beat estimates and raised
some targets signaling a sweeping
overhaul of Europe's largest lender by
its CEO George Elhillery is paying off.
The results boost boosted the company's
bonus pool by about 10%. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara in the next hour. Up
next on the program, Nvidia challenging
the market.
>> There has never really been a moment in
the last 3 years where the market got it
except for maybe that one big blowout
report with Nvidia. Nvidia continues to
uh challenge what is possible uh with
compute.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Angelo Zeno
of CF from New York City. You're
watching Blimbe TV.
I've
>> got some bad news for you. The snow is
falling again in New York City.
>> Oh, come on.
>> Apparently, we're getting another inch.
Do you think this is good news?
>> No, I'm This is This is fake fake news.
I don't want I didn't know this was I
didn't know this was happening.
>> Yeah. No, I can't see it. So, it's not
happening.
>> Another inch of this apparently and then
we're going to move on until next week
apparently. So, yeah. Okay. Enjoy that.
Equity futures on the S&P. I'm not
enjoying it at all. Positive by a
quarter of 1% on the NASDAQ up by a
third. One single name for you. Dagio in
London trading the drinks maker. This is
where the stock is down 8%. Dave Lewis,
the CEO, saying that consumers are
facing significant spending squeezes,
particularly weakness coming out of the
US. Now, that's interesting. Is it about
consumer weakness or is it just about
drinking? Because earlier on this
morning, this note dropped from Bank of
America. Dry January peaks while dry
December is gaining traction. Even
though December always brings a jump in
alcohol buying, those spikes have been
shrinking for three years straight.
>> Young people are not drinking. I mean,
they might be smoking other things, but
they're not drinking as much. You see
this in Annheiser Bush and you see this
in other potential earnings and so that
might be weighing on their results but
not might not speak to the consumer. I
mean this actually isn't totally
negative. I mean if you think about it
is you know maybe not negative society
negative for Dagio and their
shareholders. Gallup over the summer
actually did some polling around this.
The percentage of US adults who say they
consume alcohol has fallen to 54% lowest
by 1 percentage point in their nearly
90year trend. Americans are just not
drinking as much. They're going to the
gym. They're having mocktails.
>> Some people also think it's negative for
society. Some people do believe that.
The AO is down by about 8%.
I'm not one of them, but some people
>> TK might say it's bad for society. The
AIO down in London trading by about 8%.
Those earnings out earlier on this
morning. The big report coming out a
little bit later on this afternoon under
Savvenas this morning. Nvidia
challenging the market.
There has never really been a moment in
the last 3 years where the market got
it, except for maybe that one big
blowout report with Nvidia. What they're
missing now is that the way these GPU
generations work, is that they ship in
volume production, which means this
strong quarter we saw is likely to
continue to flow. That momentum is
likely to continue. Nvidia continues to
uh challenge what is possible uh with
compute.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Traders eagerly awaiting results from
Nvidia after the market close. Angelo
Zeno of CFRA lowering his price target
on the tech giant and writing the
following. AI monetization will need to
ensure supply does not catch up as this
remains the biggest risk to the AI
buildout. Angelo joins us now for more.
Angelo, welcome to the show. Let's just
start with base case expectations for
you and a team a little bit later this
afternoon.
>> Yeah, so thanks for having me, John. I'd
say overall, you know, we expect another
beat and raise quite simply from uh from
Nvidia here. I mean, that and that
really shouldn't be the surprise. That
really should be the base case after
what we just saw um across Q4 earning
season from the hyperscalers.
Essentially, all these companies stepped
up capex well above expectations. Um
essentially wiping out most of their
free cash flow here in 2026. And we
think they're going to do that again in
2027. Again, that would be our base
case. So, we're looking for revenue
growth this quarter. north of 65%
another north of 60% growth here uh
expected for the the April quarter and
um you know I'd say if there's any sort
of potential risk out there it might be
on the margin side we're looking for
gross margins to expand to about 75%
here this quarter we think that's going
to be okay the street's looking closer
to about 76% for the April quarter again
you know maybe maybe it might be
slightly below that but nonetheless I
mean the trajectory is still very good
we think they sustain a mid70s gross
margin there on top of the, you know,
the the elevated growth rates that
you're going to see here throughout the
year.
>> A lot of companies would be very jealous
of mid70s gross margins if they take a
look at some of this. You talk about
what a lot of people in markets are
talking about right now, which is the
potential for an AI bubble. And you
still see that as actually a feasible
possibility in the next three years, but
still remain heavily overweight invidia.
Can you explain why?
Yeah, I mean I I think that the market
is going to uh you know I think unlike
other cycles where you kind of saw
multiples really expand on you know very
healthy growth rates and continue to
expand as you get towards the peak of a
cycle which then led to that bubble and
deflating of the bubble or popping of
the bubble. I think what you're actually
going to see in this cycle is it seems
like investors are so um so freaked out
about a potential top of this AI cycle
that they're doing a lot of the hard
work right now. They're essentially
digesting compressing the multiples as
we look forward and move forward um in
future years. And that in many respects
is a very healthy thing, right? Um, in
in many respects, if you're an investor,
as the cycle gets long longer in the
tooth, um, you should be essentially
willing to pay less or a lower multiple
um, as you get closer to that peak. And
that's essentially what you're seeing
happening on the the chip side of
things, on the infrastructure side of
things. Again, the earnings growth will
be there this year. It will be there in
2027. the stock price appreciation won't
follow that to that degree but
nonetheless we do expect positive um
upside in terms of the share price
performance given the the robust uh
robust growth that you see I also say
this as far as kind of the AI ecosystem
is concerned the fact that we're
essentially pulling up two years worth
of growth in terms of this AI spend from
the the hyperscalers essentially means
that there's going to be a lot more
capacity in the market here as we
approach the second half of the year
that'll allow the the open AI's
anthropics of the world to continue to
roll out uh new offerings and that's a
big reason why you are seeing you know
clearly the the troubles on the the
software and services side of things.
>> Will markets reward Nvidia for investing
more in open AI and say maybe even
anthropic?
Yeah, I mean I I think you know we'll
kind of see how this all plays out, but
um you know I I think really the unknown
here in the market, right, is we know
what the supply growth is going to look
like. And I think, you know, the the the
bears out there are really focused on
the fact that there, you know, the
supply growth is may get too heavy at
some point in time and really start to
exceed that demand landscape. And that's
that's entirely possible. The the fact
of the matter is we just don't know what
that demand landscape is going to look
like. that what that trajectory is going
to look like as we go into the second
half and into 2027. I think the
enterprise AI applications are going to
show up um increasingly from the open
AIS anthropics to the world. But I think
we also need to take a close look at how
this physical AI world really um evolves
here as the year progresses and into
2027. It's something you're going to
hear Johnson really increasingly talk
about, something he has been over the
last couple of quarters, but I think
more so as we go into the GTC event next
month. Angelo, good to see you. Thanks
for updating us. Angelo Zena there of
CFR on Nvidia. Their stock is firmer in
the pre-market up for the previous three
days, I believe, on that particular
stock. Fact of the matter is that we're
starting to see signs of AI
monetization. Capex is up, monetization
is up, and this stock is rangebound.
What gives? The question we've asked
repeatedly over the past few weeks
>> and Angela's response is people are
taking down their multiples for future
years because ultimately there will be
potentially a bubble that pops and
people don't want to be exposed to it.
Does that make the bar that much lower
for Nvidia heading into these earnings?
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Kate Moore of City Wealth, Henred
Trace of Vader Partners, Neil Data of
Renmack, and the Port of Los Angeles
executive director Gene Srooka from New
York City. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
>> There are elements of disruption that
are permeating the entire technology
sector.
>> Diversification is your best friend.
There will be some defensive posturing
in the market.
>> Investors are recognizing they can go
into bonds. It is the counterbalance to
risk.
>> Regime change looks a lot like a counter
trend rally at the start.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores look like this. Futures
positive by a third of 1% on the S&P up
by a third also on the NASDAQ. In the
bond market, all is quiet, at least for
the moment on twos, tens, and 30s. 10's
up by about a basis point or two. 4.05.
Still very close to the lows of the
year. On the earnings front, things
won't be quiet. Later this hour, we
should hear from TJX. After the close,
you should hear from Salesforce and
Nvidia. Nvidia, the main event, of
course, which should be a major capex
beneficiary. Salesforce kicked around by
the AI disruption fears. and TJX. This
is the one for me in retail on an
18-year winning run. That stock has
captured the hearts of many a consumer
>> which is really because of their
discount nature and people are looking
for bargains as they become what is it?
Choosier. What word? Choiceful. Oh, you
love that word. Yes. I like to use
language that you love. I mean honestly
this to me is going to be a big question
especially because we are seeing select
industries affected differently by
consumer discretion and how people are
pulling back. Do you see TJX mint money
once again? Even as Home Depot and
Lowe's express concerns about
uncertainty and does that really add to
the complications of this picture? Is a
consumer strong or not? They might not
feel good. And frankly, even as they
feel a little bit better, they're
spending. Has it been okay or not? I
mean, honestly, the number of notes that
I have cut that are going in on either
side of this absolutely off the charts.
>> Which is why it was so interesting
yesterday the president when he was
talking about affordability, a lot of
individuals felt like he didn't meet
Americans where they are. They are still
going out and spending. We have seen
somewhat of a resilient consumer and I
think TJX will point to how much they
are going out and spending but it was
peculiar last night that he didn't talk
about more prescriptions to this issue
ahead of the midterm elections.
>> What happened to the report that came
out yesterday afternoon?
>> I don't know.
>> I've heard barely anything about it 12
hours or something. This came from a
report the president had a lunch with a
few news anchors and this came out of
the lunch that the president's planning
to outline an unconventional idea for
personal and corporate tax cuts which he
could implement without Congress. and we
got no further details and then heard
absolutely nothing about it in the
address.
>> I don't know, maybe you had the uh
Senate Majority Leader John Thoon or
Speaker Johnson call and say actually
you can't do that. Um and I think the
Supreme Court maybe just told you a lot
of the power of the purse still relies
in Congress. I don't know. Or it was
just a trial balloon. There was however
a nod to this this idea that tariffs
could supplement or uh or or replace the
income taxes that people have pointing
to further tax cuts ahead. It sort of
goes to a question of how well vetted
this particular speech was and whether
it ended up so well vetted that we got
nothing there which is the reason why
markets are moving on and looking toward
video.
>> So Adam Posen of the Peterson Institute
was on the program with us about an hour
ago and this is the point he made as
well that we didn't see the additional
policy proposal that I think many people
expected that would disrupt the bond
market and maybe get people to revise up
their inflation forecast. In fact, you
heard from Adam who's had to bring his
back down. Is that the story in the next
69 months? because that would be
unexpected.
>> It would be unexpected and it would have
the fingerprints of Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson all over them. Again, who
is vetting this speech because we all
were surprised that there weren't more
populist kinds of prescriptions in this
speech? There wasn't a 10% cap on any
kind of interest rate by central by by
uh by investment banks and there wasn't
any further discussion about tax cuts
and that I think is a story and the
reason why you're seeing such
complacency right now in the bond
market. If we were surprised, the bond
market was not surprised. Looking right
through those reports yesterday, unmoved
and essentially unmoved this morning, up
by a basis point or two and still very
close to the lows of the year. Coming up
on the program, we'll catch up with Kate
Moore of City Wealth as equities look
for a second day of gains. Henry a
traded partners as the president takes a
victory lap and Neil Dutter of Renmack
as the president pushes for lower
inflation rates. We begin this hour with
stocks pushing higher. Kate Moore as
city wealth writing easier monetary and
fiscal policy, resilient corporate
profits, and strong balance sheets
support cyclally strong nominal growth.
Kate joins us now for more. Kate,
welcome to the program. It supports
nominal growth. Will it support this
equity market at the index level?
>> Well, I mean, Jonathan, we've had this
massive disconnect throughout the course
of 2026, which feels like a much longer
year than just two months so far,
between what's going on in terms of
earnings and the fundamentals. than
what's been happening in price action.
We've seen this disconnect across a
variety of different sectors whether
it's around technology or energy. And so
I'm not sure the market is actually
reflecting the strong nominal growth
environment that we feel we're
experiencing. In fact, it's not really
reflecting the strong earning side and
seems to be much more about this
rebalancing, re-shifting and uh multiple
expansion for sectors that have been
lagards. Well, Kate, do you think there
is a valuation reset in both directions
taking place that could linger through
the rest of the year?
>> I don't think it's going to linger,
John. I I I think we're actually going
to get to a place where people are going
to be really focused once again on the
fundamentals. You know, when we get
these periods and they often happen in
the first quarter, you know this very
well. We start off the year and people
look for the laggers and say the
valuation discount or premium needs to
close and uh they rebalance perhaps
their sector or their country exposures.
you know, it doesn't tend to persist
because you have to eventually go where
the earnings are. And look, when you
look at technology and communications,
people are tired of the story. They're
worried about where the disruption is
going to be. They're kind of exhausted
from the outperformance of these
sectors. But that doesn't mean that's
not where the earnings are. And I think
we're going to have more of a
recognition of that in the second
quarter, even as this rotation and this
multiple um, you know, reshift over the
course of the first quarter really
exhausts investors. Kate, you know,
we've seen earnings that haven't
necessarily uh ignited the responses,
that sort of positive flow back into US
equities. We've gotten that already and
it's been sort of a conundrum. Will
Nvidia kick off a shift back into some
of the mega cap names that are
delivering 76% margins as we just heard
from Angelo Zeno?
>> Yeah, I would love to think that one
company can inspire a whole shift back
into kind of US equities, but I'm not
sure that's going to be it. They said to
be honest um I think many people have
very high expectations for Nvidia after
the close today and it's not just the
expectations that were sort of published
but as you well know it's the whisper
number and the discussion that the
investment community has around how high
or how much higher than the estimates um
they'll end up reporting and then
guiding. But I do think it's critically
important to keep people invested at
this point because as we've been talking
about for the course of the last few
weeks, there are a lot of things on
investor minds, right? There's concern
around, you know, impact of stickier
inflation even if perhaps some of these
shifts in tariffs uh won't lead to as
high inflation as some people had uh
feared in 2026. There's concerns around,
you know, slowing of consumer demand,
which of course has been a theme we've
been talking about for what feels like
seven quarters at this point. There are
concerns around geopolitical impact on
activity. There are concerns around, you
know, disruption coming from AI and what
that means for the labor force. I could
go on and on and on, right? We've been
ringing our hands. And I think many of
these fears need to be quelled before
you see people shift a lot more money
into risk assets. So, uh, Nvidia doing
well and beating expectations is
necessary but not sufficient.
>> Have you gotten more bearish, Kate? I
mean I I've noticed sort of a shift in
your tone and I was looking at your
notes and you like short duration high
quality fixed income which doesn't
exactly scream optimism about the future
ahead. I mean can you give us a sense in
this very very very long two years that
feels like uh 10 years but is actually
two months. I mean how much have you
actually gotten a little bit more
pessimistic?
>> Well I haven't gotten that much more
pessimistic than I was kind of you know
over the course of the last year. I will
tell you the short duration view in our
fixed income outlook and how we're
expressing our views in portfolios has
been in place for the duration of the
last 12 months. So that's been the case.
We've been really kind of careful about
adding to longduration fixed income. See
lots of sort of headwinds. You might
remember I added a bunch of gold over
the course of the last year which has
turned out to be an amazing contributor
to portfolio performance. obviously far
exceeding any expectation that I had
when I was using that as a balance for
equities, but we're still allin on
equities. I should be very clear. And we
continue to believe that we're going to
have a significant amount of upside when
it's being driven by earnings over the
course of 2026. So, I'm not bearish on
equities. I'm still cautious on taking
risk and duration um or what shouldn't
be risk but feels like risk and duration
and instead of using gold and
portfolios.
>> Kate, the way you talk about gold, it
doesn't sound like a hedge. It sounds
like you're excited about this as an
investment. Would that be accurate?
>> Yeah, I mean look, the first ad to the
portfolios was really about kind of
hedging equity risk and sort of a
substitute for duration. Then over the
rest of the year, you know, a lot of the
other kind of structural issues that are
underpinning gold ownership really like
um reinforced our thesis. You know,
things about central bank
diversification, you know, concerns
around sort of peakier inflation than
many people were expecting. And so I'd
say there are multiple forces and
drivers behind our gold allocation at
this point. So yes, it's not just a
hedge. It's not just a ballast. Uh but
we see a lot of reasons for people
especially asset allocators um around
the world, central banks, um uh
sovereign wealth funds, pension funds,
and institutional investors to kind of
continue to add to their portfolios and
use gold and precious metals in general
as a tool. And that a lot of that was
fueled by concerns about geopolitics and
also economic policy coming from this
administration. You mentioned one of the
fears that you hope investors maybe
could start to quell. And you mentioned
trade, but are we peak past trade
concerns given what we saw from the
Supreme Court now the administration
weighing 10 15% and new investigations
using 301 or 232s.
>> I wish we were Amory, but I just I'm not
sure. You know, I think that tariffs um
and the threats of tariffs is is a tool
this administration likes to use with
trade partners and allies, and I think
they're going to continue to pursue uh
these tariffs in many different forms.
You know, you heard the president say
last night during the State of the Union
that he was going to be looking for
substitutes and be substituting the
revenue that wouldn't be coming from the
AIPA tariffs. I know you have Henrietta
on later. She's one of my all-time
favorite policy analysts and she's going
to have great insights there. But I just
want to make this point. I don't think
tariffs and the threat of tariffs go
away even if the mechanisms look
different. Maybe a little bit of relief
on corporate margins in the near term.
We certainly like that. Although
corporate margins have been in very good
shape, but there's so many questions
around refunds and what this means for
small companies and in different parts
of the supply chain that I think are
still unanswered.
>> Henetta is coming up next on the
program. Kate, get the dog back. We want
to know the dog's name. What's the dog's
name?
>> Her name is Kora. Her name is Kora. And
uh I'm really impressed that she decided
to make this appearance so early in the
morning.
>> Can we get a price target or not? I'm
joking.
>> I'm joking.
>> Don't take the dog out in the snow.
Okay, don't do it. You'll lose her.
Kate, thank you. Kate Moore of City
Wealth there. Thank you very much. The
snow is falling in New York City. I'm
unhappy to say. I'm told we're going to
get another inch or two here in the
city.
>> I just saw less than an inch. You're
making it now, too. You're trying to get
the snow to fall, John. I understand.
You like the snow and that you want to
get sleep at the office.
>> I think that you enjoy it and I
apparently like to reject.
>> Apparently some people sleep at the
office. That's interesting.
>> Sleeping at the office.
>> Yeah, that's an interesting.
>> What do they do? Get like a sleeping bag
and go under the desk.
>> Darren or a C or something. I'll make
hot cocoa.
>> I could never. I could never. I love you
guys, but absolutely not. Equity futures
on the S&P positive by a quarter of 1%
with an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara with more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. The Pentagon issuing an
ultimatum to Anthropic, threatening to
use a Cold War era law to force the
company to let the US military use its
AI tools. Anthropic wants guard rails
preventing its clawed system from
autonomously targeting enemies or
conducting mass surveillance. Pentagon
officials laying out a series of
consequences if Anthropic doesn't comply
by Friday.
Warner Brothers Discovery says a new $31
a share buyout offer from Paramount
Skyance could lead to a better deal than
its existing agreement with Netflix. In
a statement, Warner says it's not
withdrawing its recommendation that
investors support the Netflix bid. It
says the Sweetened Paramount offer does
however meet the threshold for further
talks. And Aston Martin is cutting jobs.
The British luxury car maker says it's
cutting up to 20% of its staff, which is
about 3,000 workers. The company saying
its turnaround efforts have been
derailed by product delays, problems
with quality, higher tariffs in the US,
as well as a slowdown in China. That's
Bloomberg Brief. John,
>> the auto business is so tough right now.
It's unbelievable. Yahara, thank you.
Thanks for that. And next on the
program, the roaring economy.
>> The roaring economy is roaring like
never before. The Dow Jones broke 50,000
four years ahead of schedule and the S&P
hit 7,000 where it wasn't supposed to do
it for many years. We are doing really
well.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Henred
Trace of Vader Partners live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Big earnings day coming up with Nvidia
at the center of things. Nvidia coming
up after the close. You'll hear from
Salesforce as well in the next 20
minutes or so. You'll also hear from
TJX. So look out for that this hour. In
the equity market at the moment, we're
positive by 0.26% on the S&P 500. On the
Nasdaq up by.3, the Russell up by 6.
Under surveillance this morning, the
roaring economy,
the roaring economy is roaring like
never before. One of the primary reasons
for our country's stunning economic
turnaround. the biggest in history where
the Dow Jones broke 50,000 four years
ahead of schedule and the S&P hit 7,000
where it wasn't supposed to do it for
many years
were tariffs. We are doing really well.
>> I really want the equity market schedule
if the president can share that with us.
Here's the latest this morning. The
president taking ownership of the US
economy while delivering the longest
state of the union address in history.
The president setting the tone for
midterm elections with Democrats holding
a four-point edge in congressional
polling. Bloomback's Tyler Kendall has
more. Morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, domestic
issues really remained front and center
during President Trump's State of the
Union address last night in a bid to
convince Americans that the economy is
in better shape than polling suggest
voters feel it is. And we really saw the
president do this by touting policies
that have already been enacted,
including the tax cuts under the one big
beautiful bill. As it becomes apparent,
this White House is banking on larger
refunds and more cash in consumers
pockets ahead of the midterm elections.
The president also notably really
doubled down on his tariff policies,
threatening additional tariffs against
any trading partner that revokes its
current deal struck with the US and even
going on to say that he was disappointed
with those Supreme Court justices that
were sitting front and center in the
chamber last night. As you well know,
this administration wasted no time
instituting that new 10% broad-based
tariff under different authorities just
yesterday morning. The thing is, we
didn't get a lot of new policy proposals
as the White House plays defense on
affordability. Though, the president did
float a potential plan that could help
workers without employerbacked
retirement savings accounts. So, perhaps
we'll get some more details there. But
instead, the president really called on
members of Congress to codify some of
those proposals that we've already heard
before, including when it comes to a
potential ban on institutional investors
from buying single family homes. Worth
noting that some of these proposals
don't have the full support of
Republicans in Congress. Though, there
is a new report out this morning that
members of the House Financial Services
Committee will be traveling to the
Treasury Department later this morning
to discuss that potential plan with the
Treasury Secretary. John, uh, as you
well know, domestic issues were really
the focus for senior White House aids
for President Trump to stay on message,
but foreign policy of course made its
way into the conversation on the heels
of the administration briefing the
so-called gang of eight uh, top
intelligence lawmakers on Capitol Hill
yesterday when it comes to US and Iran.
In his speech, the president did not
rule out the potential that we could
still see military action.
>> Tyler Kendall down in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. On trade, it felt like the
president had gone a little bit soft
with the Supreme Court. Now,
everything's relative, of course, on the
Trump scale. Friday was an 11 and
yesterday was what, like a five.
>> I I mean, even think less. I was
expecting a lot more when it comes to
trade. The Supreme Court justices were
right in front of him. He came in, he
shook everyone's hand that attended,
starting with Chief Justice John
Roberts, um, all the way down the line.
And he said he it was unfortunate, but
we it wasn't the language we saw on
Friday. So, he definitely was toned
down.
>> Looking forward to the conversation
about an hour from now with Ambassador
Jameson Grit of USR. Look out for that a
little bit later this morning right here
on Bloomberg Surveillance. Henry Trace
of Vader Partners has this to say. This
was a victory lap speech and for those
inclined to hear good news, it was
likely very effective. For others, it
would likely be a stark contrast to
their lived experienced. Henrietta joins
us now for more. Henrietta, welcome to
the program. The president called it a
roaring economy and roaring like never
before. How many people are buying into
that?
>> Um uh whatever the opposite of 64% is
out of 100. I mean, the president's uh
agenda on the economy is his least
popular metric, and it's driven largely
by these tariffs, and it's amazing to
watch the administration and the
president double and triple down on
something that the American public just
does not like. What really stuck out
stood out to me is the idea of replacing
the income tax with the tariffs. The
income taxes bring in like $3 trillion a
year and the tariffs bring in 300
billion maybe annualized over 12 months.
So in that if that's going to really
come together, we have a lot more
tariffs coming our way. That's that's a
scary thought.
>> Henrietta, when it comes to the tariff
story, it sounded like the president
didn't he talked about how he wasn't
going to punt this to Congress. He has
other legal avenues. Is that your
takeaway as well? when 150 days are up
for the 122s, it'll all be done through
section 232s and 301's.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, that's just
acknowledging that he doesn't have the
votes. The House and the Senate have
both voted about a half a dozen times to
strip the president of these tariffs,
not to put them back in. There's one
senator I can think of from Ohio who
supports extending these tariffs, but
Senate Leader Thun and Speaker Johnson
have both been really clear that they
just don't have the votes to extend
this. So, the president is right to talk
about how he does not need Congress. Um,
to Kate's point, and I petitioned to
have a field trip out to her house while
all of us go next time, but that to
their her point, the 301's and the 232s
can ratchet up tariffs from here. I
think we're stuck at 10% for now, mostly
because the EU deal, the UK deal, Japan,
South Korea, all depend on the rate
being below 15%, which his announcement
on Friday would on Saturday morning
would have violated. Um, but after
November 3rd, all bets are off. You
know, then we don't have any more
midterm elections. These tariffs can
ratchet back up, but I think from
between now and November 3rd, we're set
at 10%.
>> Hopefully, we got some clarity from
Ambassador Greer. But were you surprised
yesterday that we didn't get new policy
prescriptions?
Nothing really in terms of housing that
the president was supposed to outline in
Davos and then it was punted to the
State of the Union. Didn't hear about
tariff dividends. Didn't hear about more
potential checks going out to Americans.
Was this surprising to you?
>> Yeah, usually the State of the Union has
at least one big, you know, policy
agenda roll out, especially this early
in a president's term. at least got
three years to get legislation passed or
to announce new um programs. And we got
none of that. It was obviously a very um
political speech just in terms of the
theater of it all, which plays really
well, I think. But there were no policy
fixes. There's no, you know,
affordability narrative that we can take
with us and say, "Oh, this is how we're
going to fix housing or this is how
we're going to bring electricity prices
down." None of that was there.
Henrietta, one thing that AMH noted
earlier this morning that I thought was
really astute is that China was not
mentioned once that there were no
mentions of uh the second biggest
economy in the world even though that
had been such a big dominant force of a
lot of the trade agenda at least in
Trump's first term. How much do you see
that as something that gives hints at
what policy and what discussions could
look like going forward?
>> It really speaks to how much the
president is intent on having these
in-person meetings with President Xi. He
really wants to go to Beijing. He really
wants to have three more meetings
thereafter for the rest of this year.
The uh migration of this White House
away from being you know China is our
number one adversary 145% tariffs. Fast
forward to China actually retaliating
and restricting critical minerals and
magnets and rare earths really created a
hole about face within the
administration driven by the president
himself. And you can see there's some
waring factions within the White House
over how aggressively to challenge
China. Uh you see it in the AI chips
debate and the semiconductor chips
debate that plays out on Capitol Hill as
well. But the president has plainly
decided that he wants the personal
interaction with President Xi and that's
going to take president.
>> How effective have the restrictions, the
chip restrictions actually been with
regards to China.
>> I mean there's new reporting out that
y'all are leading right now just talking
about the chips that China is getting as
we speak um and where those came from
and how they were able to get over to
China. I mean, I I think that the
members and the folks at the State
Department and the Pentagon that are
most concerned about the Daytona that we
just described are concerned about what
they're seeing in the chip production
that's happening in China, the
replication that they're seeing, which
goes back to the original section 301
investigation into China in the first
place in Trump's first term around force
tech transfer, intellectual property
theft, all the same stuff. And now it's
now it's escalating.
>> Henrietta, appreciate your time as
always. Henreda Traer of Vader Partners.
Wang, thank you. A lot of that
technology is getting into the country.
>> Oh, it is. And OpenAI and Anthropic have
also come out and talked about how China
is basically using their inputs and
algorithm. Open AAI sent a letter to the
China Select Committee saying how Deep
Seek is freewriting off of their
technology. And then you also have this
report of course that to make Deepseek
they were using these chips that they're
not supposed to have their hands on.
>> Nvidia reporting after the closing bow.
Look out for that earnings report later
on this afternoon. Full coverage from
the team on Bloomberg TV and on
Bloomberg radio. Equities at the moment
positive by a third of 1% on the S&P.
Coming up, we'll catch up with Neil Data
of Renmack as the president pushes for
rate cards. Plus, Jihara is going to
drop by. She's got some morning movers.
Check out Carver. Shares are climbing
after posting an optimistic outlook.
That name is up 11% in the pre-market
and up double digits so far this month.
There is a turnaround in select names of
the restaurant business and they have
been beaten up big time over the past
year or so. What's happening with
discretionary spending in this country?
That name is up next. From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Let's give a snapshot of the equity
market at the moment. Positive by about
a third of 1% on the S&P, up by 0.4 on
the Nasdaq. The main event for the
NASDAQ of course later on this afternoon
after the closing bell numbers from the
tech giant Nvidia. Our performance at
the moment on the Russell small caps
high by 0.6% with some single name some
morning movers. Yhara has more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. Cabba getting it done in what's
been a tough fast casual environment as
rivals like Chipotle struggle to
convince shoppers uh convince diners
that it's uh it's pre that they're worth
the premium over fat over fast food
promotions. Cava posting better than
expected growth uh for the last quarter
and projecting more of it this year. It
says customers are visiting less, but
when they do, they are spending more.
So, shares are up more than 10% in the
pre-market. Uh, meanwhile, Lowe's
offering another reminder that the
housing market isn't rebounding anytime
soon despite the president's
affordability push, which we heard about
last night with Americans growing more
frustrated with the housing markets.
Rates still too high, homes are too
expensive, so people aren't moving, and
they aren't taking on those big
projects. And that showed up in Lowe's
results. The company posted a weaker
than expected fullear sales outlook. So
shares are down 3.6%.
And I don't think I've ever watched a
workday earnings report this closely.
But here we are. The stock had been
beaten down down 40% year to date
heading into the report on fears AI
could disrupt enterprise software
demand. And the software outlook it gave
is only adding fuel to the fire. We are
seeing workday shares down nearly 10% in
the pre-market and in the next test of
uh software amid these AI threats. We
will get Salesforce earnings and heading
into that report after the bell shares
are down 6/10 of a percent. John
>> Yahara, thank you. That's a key earnings
report later on this afternoon. Software
has been absolutely hammered over the
past few months and more particularly
over the past few weeks. Got some
numbers just a moments ago from TJX. The
numbers okay for the fourth quarter.
We'll get to the outlook in just a
moment. The stock is down by 0.4% for
the fourth quarter. Comp sales coming in
at plus 5% the estimate 3.67.
Bremo.
>> Yeah. And looking uh to that fullear
outlook, which is really perhaps what
people are responding to $4.93 to $52.
The uh estimate had been higher than
that at $518, which could be part of the
disappointment. Very curious to hear any
commentary. Earnings per share also
coming in light versus expectations at
97 to 99 versus the $12. So, is this a
margin compression story? Is this
shoppers not coming in the door? The
actual sales fac uh sales numbers came
in above expectations. So, look at
margin compression. Look at how they're
absorbing some of those costs in order
to lure in different customers.
>> Every time I see this stat, I'm shocked.
18 years of gains for that stock. Up 27%
last year. up every year for 18 years,
including this year if we stay the
course.
>> You know, I'm old enough to remember
Lmens and some of the other names that
you could go to and get different
discounts that are sort of high-end
names you could dig through and one
after the other went bankrupt and TJX
remained the one that consolidated
shares. So now there's a question of how
much is this almost the benchmark name
when it comes to consumers that are
looking for deals. Yes. like myself who
are going to different places and hoping
for, you know, something that gives them
that quality and value that everybody
sees
>> for the best part of two decades. The
very definition of up and to the right,
that chart on our radar this morning,
President Donald Trump calling the
Supreme Court's recent ruling on
tariffs, quote, very unfortunate. The
president doubling down on his trade
agenda, pledging to use alternative
legal authorities to impose new duties.
Elsewhere, the Pentagon threatening Cold
War era laws to force anthropic to hand
over unrestricted AI access. The startup
pushing back, citing concerns over
autonomous targeting and mass
surveillance ahead of a Friday deadline.
And finally, UBS strategists warning
private credit defaults could skyrocket
to 15% in his worst case scenario. The
firm's grimmer outlook coming as
concerns over AIdriven market
disruption. A deepening shares of
private credit firms taken a beating
year to date. It seems like at this
point people are just throwing out
numbers as we get increasingly dire
forecast for just how much disruption
there could potentially be. The fact
that Matt Mish and the team over at UBS
went to 15% in terms of the default
rates among private credit from 13%. I
just wonder what are the inputs to some
of these models at this point. It seems
like people are increasingly worried
that there could be entire business
models that are eradicated. On one side
you have people saying what took you so
long? We've been talking about this for
three years. On the other hand, people
are saying these are the companies that
are going to use this uh first and
actually be the beneficiaries of it. And
so that's the debate right now and it's
playing out clearly in the analyst
community.
>> When it comes to the private market,
what's going on there with Jamie Diamond
really kicking a lot of this off saying
some people are doing dumb things.
You'll see under the individuals come
out a little bit more constructive. Dan
Loe was speaking in Miami yesterday and
he said the bad news is that a lot of
these loans will be impaired, but they
don't make up all the portfolios that
they're invested in. There's not a
run-of-the-m scenario because there's a
match between assets and liabilities. So
that is a little bit more constructive
view of what's going on even though
potentially Jamie Diamond is right. Some
people are making some dumb decisions.
>> A thoughtprovoking note from the team
over at UBS. Thanks for that. Let's
stick with the economy. President Trump
continuing his call for lower interest
rates as many Americans struggle with
affordability.
>> In 12 months, my administration has
driven core inflation down to the lowest
level in more than 5 years. Mortgage
rates are the lowest in four years and
falling fast. and low interest rates
will solve the Biden created housing
problem while at the same time
protecting the values of those people
who already own a house.
>> Joining us now to discuss is Neil Data
of Random Mac. Neil, welcome to the
show. I should say this up front. I've
seen Neil's medical records. He does not
have Trump derangement syndrome. So
before we start this conversation, I
just want to park that. Neil, let's get
into it. He's calling it a golden age, a
roaring economy. What's your assessment
of what this is at the moment?
>> Well, I'm right. I mean, he's sort of
doing his best. Jay-Z impression we're
going from lukewarm to hot. Um, but
unfortunately, um, that's not the case.
I mean, if you look at private domestic
demand for the full year last year, it
ran 2 and a.5% respectable, no doubt.
Uh, it's a solid performance. Uh, but I
think it's short of a golden age of
economic growth. Um, in fact, uh,
private demand, uh, you strip out trade
and inventory investment and, uh,
government. Uh, it's actually a little
bit slower than it was in 2024. So, um,
you know, the golden age, you can't rule
it out. Uh, but it's still very much a
forecast, not a present day reality.
>> Well, let's talk about the forecast,
Neil. And you've heard this all before,
I know, because we talk about it so many
times on programs like this. Tax refunds
are coming. That's starting. We've
already had the rate cuts and these big
tech companies are spending tons and
tons of money on this economy at the
moment. Neil, that's the bullish
outlook.
>> Any of those pillars at the moment you'd
push back against?
>> No, I mean that's Well, I guess the
issue is is that there's a lot of
optimism and enthusiasm in the economy
for the reasons you mentioned, right? I
mean, the lagged effects of lower rates,
uh, tax refunds,
uh, loose financial market conditions.
um you know now is the time for the
economy to be uh you know really
accelerating and
there's not much evidence that that's
actually happening. I mean, you look at
the uh the PMIs, for example, like
business conditions indicators through
February released by S&P, that's
basically consistent with 2% real GDP.
Again, not terrible, um but you know,
not the kind of golden age uh that
they're talking about. And you know
that's important because it's this
golden age that they want everyone to
believe in to kind of justify the lower
interest rates uh you know through you
know the disinflation and you know we're
just not seeing that. So yeah, I mean I
I think what's interesting is for
despite all the things you mentioned,
right, refunds, optimism, um you know,
AI capex, we're sitting here with the
10-year longerterm interest rate
basically at a little over 4%. It's
actually been coming down despite all
these things. So isn't now the time for
yields to be going up because of all
that enthusiasm? It's not exactly
happening. that well there could be this
push back about AI and what that does in
terms of disinflation. I am curious Neil
getting your take on the economic
transformation that President Trump is
discussing the idea of increasing
tariffs and eradicating or at least
significantly diminishing income tax. Do
you think that that kind of model is one
the US should aspire to that actually
could set the economy up for a roaring
uh number of years ahead?
No, I mean it's it's just really a
rotation of things. I mean, you want to
cut infant taxes and raise consumption
taxes. I mean, so you'll probably get a
little bit uh less consumption and a
little bit more labor. I mean, I don't I
don't know that it's um going to set the
course for for the golden age. I mean, I
think there are things they've done that
have been helpful for uh boosting
potential growth, like for example, uh
deregulation and so forth. I mean, of
the financial sector. I mean that's
that's probably um you know helping
underlying economic conditions. On the
other hand uh if you're trying to
onshore activity in in many and in many
cases that's going to be in sort of a
higher cost jurisdiction with uh you
know higher labor costs that's probably
not the best thing for productivity. So
uh it's a given a take in my opinion.
You talked about how you'd expect in
such a booming economy the 10-year yield
to be higher or at least increasing as a
representation of longer term higher
growth forecasts. A lot of people say
the reason why it's not is because
artificial intelligence is a
disinflationary force. You're getting
that increased productivity which is
also the reason why you have seen kind
of sluggish job creation. Do you buy
that argument?
>> No. No. No, I mean I think that well so
it's I mean part of it is yeah you
almost I mean I'm I'm I'm cautious on
the economic outlook but let's talk
about where things are. I mean for all
the talk about like AI displacement
look at prime age employment rates. I
mean they're basically
at close to highs. I mean so where's all
the displacement talk we're talking
about here? Um you know we talk about
disinflation and again I think there's
good reasons to expect disinflation but
I don't really think that's a function
of what's going on with AI. I mean, it's
really hard to be worried about
inflation when shelter prices continue
to moderate. I don't think that has
anything to do with AI. I think I think
rental demand is cooling because the
labor markets have generally been are
likely to continue slowing. Uh so, uh I
don't I don't think it's really an AI uh
story. Um and ultimately, you know, like
any productivity boom, right? I mean,
there's there's a bit of this if workers
are becoming more productive, then
companies should want those productive
workers.
Are we seeing that? Um, so I I I don't
know. I mean, I think in any
productivity boom also, you'd expect to
see real compensation growth accelerate.
That's entirely the point. The point is
for investment to raise household living
standards and and real compensation
growth to go up. And during this alleged
productivity boom, which is really just
in my view statistical noise driven by a
decline in the savings rate put pushing
up GDP, you look at what's going on with
real real compensation over that period.
It's basically flat. If you look at real
income's net of transfers over the last
year,
it's zero.
>> Neil, can we focus on housing for a
moment? You say in your note that you do
expect continued downward pressure on
residential investment. There was a lot
of hype that the president was going to
come out with more policy prescriptions
what's going on in the housing market.
All we had yesterday from him is a
reiteration of his call on Congress to
enact restrictions on institutional
investor ownership of single family
homes. Do you think that'll help the
housing market?
>> No. And in some ways it might hurt
because that's been a source of demand
for the builders themselves in a time
when demand from traditional sources
like first-time buyers has been waning.
So no, I don't think it would be the
best thing. Look, the residential
investment outlook in terms of at least
construction, uh, that's just a
mathematical thing, right? I mean, the
fact is is that housing starts are
running below housing completions,
um, by, I think, roughly a little over
100,000 units. So long as starts are
running below completions, housing units
under construction will continue to go
down and that'll weigh on uh, you know,
construction put in place.
>> Now, just a final question on the Fed.
I'm sure you've been following the
communication over the past few days.
Are the Doves losing some fuel here?
>> Well, I mean, you saw uh Governor Waller
kind of make a nod to the fact that if
the next jobs number is stronger, you
know, he probably wouldn't support uh a
rate cut. And yeah, I mean, I think
what's going on is people are punting on
any decisions uh really through the
summer, right? So, I wouldn't expect any
I mean, if they're cutting rates in the
spring, that means something very bad
has happened between now and then. Um,
so I think this is just an
acknowledgement of really the data
that's come in. Um, but as I go as I say
said earlier, right, I mean, you have
tax refunds, financial conditions being
loose. We're coming off a firmer core
inflation number. We're coming off a
better than expected jobs number and all
the on all the bond market has to show
for it is uh 10ear yields at 4.05%.
>> It's notable, isn't it, Neil? What's
your final word on that? Yields down by
4%.
Well, I mean to me it suggests that a
lot of that's already priced in, right?
I mean and and sort of the optimism like
the threshold is very high. I mean, if
if if all you're doing is basically 2%
GDP and everyone's expecting some sort
of gearing up of growth because of the
refunds in the back half of the year,
you should be marking down your
expectations at that point because most
of the research that I've seen shows
that the uh the tax refunds are
essentially a one-time sort of jolt to
growth that fades in the back half of
the year. And you know, essentially the
government goes from a tailwind to a to
a headwind.
>> No, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. No doubt to that of Renmack in a
bond market at the moment. Look, bond
market could be wrong, of course, but
fixed income doesn't appear to be buying
the economic boom. You'd expect high
yields and steeper curves and that story
slowed down.
>> I remember when Muhammad Alian said to
us, listen to what companies are telling
us and what you heard from Home Depot
and what you heard from Lowe's is that
things are not looking great and that
people feel that uncertainty. Yes, this
is tied to the housing market, but
that's led to downgrades in some of
their expectations. We heard the same
thing from Walmart. In that backdrop,
can you get really excited about some
sort of reaceleration in growth that can
be prolonged? This is the reason why
yields have been coming in.
>> Bond yields this morning up by just a
couple of basis points. Tens at 4.05%
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We are seeing TJX shares up
half a percent in the pre-market. The
company reporting fourth quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates
though its 2027 EPS forecast falling
short of forecast. TJX on track for its
18th straight years of gains. Look at
that chart. Uh meanwhile, Nvidia has yet
to sell any of its H200 chips to China 2
months after President Donald Trump's
decision to allow shipments of the AI
processors. An ad administration
official who helps enforce export
controls says the US is boosting efforts
to crack down on smuggling of advanced
semiconductors used in AI.
And Stripe is considering an acquisition
of all or parts of PayPal. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the talks
are in the early stages and no certainty
they'll lead to a deal. PayPal was an
early mover in digital payments but has
struggled with modernizing its
technologies. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yari, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Up next on a program staying the tariff
course.
>> An unfortunate ruling from the United
States Supreme Court. Almost all
countries and corporations want to keep
the deal that they already made. The
legal power that I as president have to
make a new deal could be far worse for
them.
>> Up next, the Port of Los Angeles
executive director Jean Soka from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks are positive by a third of 1% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.4. Some
nice outperformance on the small caps
this morning. The Russell is high by 0.7
and Savylvanas this morning staying the
tariff course.
>> An unfortunate ruling from the United
States Supreme Court. Almost all
countries and corporations want to keep
the deal that they already made. the
legal power that I as president have to
make a new deal could be far worse for
them and therefore they will continue to
work along the same successful path that
we had negotiated before the Supreme
Court's unfortunate involvement.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump doubling down on his
tariff agenda. Questions remain
following the Supreme Court's ruling.
Gene Soka, executive director of the
port of Los Angeles, saying importers
are facing significant uncertainty. Gene
joins us now for more. Gene, welcome
back. Thanks for making some time for
us. You're a master of international
trade. How is that uncertainty following
Friday's ruling impacting cargo rates at
the moment or will impact cargo rates in
the months to come?
>> Uh, good morning, John. And this
conversation continues to be the same
between the two of us. The uncertainty
means that businesses hit the pause
button. They're not hiring. Capital
investment is softer than we would like.
and trying to make decisions on sourcing
and manufacturing continues to be the
focus of scenario analysis. Now, we're
coming out of the new Lunar New Year
holiday, typically our slower season.
So, even if there's a quick uptick,
because the nominal tariff rate has
decreased, I think the cargo will be
able to be absorbed in that supply chain
mechanism from ocean to rail to truck.
What happens with ocean freight rates
are largely a quotient of supply and
demand. There's a little bit of downward
pressure on rates right now due to
uncertainty, but that's kind of in the
short term according to the spot market
itself. Gene, without a doubt, we've
increased friction. There's no dispute
about that. But over the last 12 months,
even with that increased friction, it
didn't pull down the amount of trade
volume that we saw on a global basis in
the last 12 months. Do you see that
changing this year?
I do and it's looking one layer below,
John. As you know, in Los Angeles, just
as one barometer, we had our third
busiest year ever, but there were a
number of ups and downs, stops and
starts based on trade policy statements
that emanated from Washington. Now, as
we look into some of the details, we've
seen that exports are down nine of the
last 13 months, and US exports to China
of soybeans, down 90% year-over-year.
All that being said, with the
information we have today, it's likely
that our ports volume will decline by
mid single digits this year, save any
real shocks to the system based on
policy changes or the reaction from
trading partners overseas. But what has
actually changed in terms of policy?
They just basically filled the gap that
AIPA left with another section of 122.
>> Well, and Marie, last Friday when the
Supreme Court came out with their
announcement on the 6 to3 vote
rescending the IEPA tariffs, companies,
especially on the import side, got to
the mathematics. What does it mean for
me country commodity specific? The
section 122 tariff implementation which
started yesterday at 1201 is a little
more prescriptive is temporary in nature
and has numerous exemptions. So once
again companies go back to the drawing
board to try to figure out what the
impact it is to their cost structure and
in some cases bottom line. There's also
a wide sweeping conversation about the
potential of refunds. twothirds of the
tariffs that were received thus far by
US Customs and Border Protection and
ultimately the Treasury Department are
under the IEPA category. What happens to
those? We've got companies lined up to
test this whether it be through an
application process, legislation, or
even litigation. And then the final
question there is what does it mean for
the consumer? Lastly, all this cargo
volume that could see ups and downs like
we witnessed last year, maybe there's a
window of opportunity here with the
effective tariff rate down and known for
the next 5 months alone. Maybe cargo
shoots through the system a little bit
quicker.
>> Jane, do you have a sense of where some
of the cargo is coming from and how that
has changed amid more uncertainty around
tariffs?
Yeah, Lisa, the uh the movement of cargo
away from China to Southeast Asian
nations is real and we witness it every
day. Overall, last year, again, using
Los Angeles as one indicator, we saw
China volume drop by about 4 and a half
percentage points and cargo from
Southeast Asia nations rose by more than
7%. The net net with Southeast Asia
overtook those losses from China. Now,
as we heard in the 15th 5-year plan from
Chinese President Xi Jinping, not only
will they be exporting products, but
also manufacturing knowledge, there's a
tremendous amount of investment that's
going into other countries, Vietnam,
Indonesia, Malaysia to name a few, from
China sources. Jean, just a final
question from us. How easy is it to
cheat these tariffs? Said a couple of
stories in the last day or so. How easy
is it to do that?
I think the staff at USCBP is doing a
tremendous job looking at the 12digit
harmonized codes and trying to make sure
everything matches up from the product
description itself on that bill of
lighting to the content that's in every
product and each shipment that comes
across. There's this notion that relay
cargo or cargo that transits over other
countries is simply trying to skirt the
uh the issue of tariffs. And while there
are some bad actors, realistically
tiered suppliers ship into one central
point, finished goods are made and
shipped on to the United States.
Continuing to watch for these bad actors
and make sure that that activity is kept
to a minimum, if any at all, is really
the goal of the US government.
>> Hey Jeene, it's good to see you as
always, sir. Thanks for making some time
for us. Gene Soka there, the Port of Los
Angeles executive director, forecasting
a little bit of softness relative to the
record boom we saw in trade last year.
Yeah. Yeah. But it's hard to tell right
now because this is the soft period of
time. Later in the year they'll get a
better sense and maybe later in the year
we'll have a better sense and later on
the year I'm talking 2 days which is
later in the year at least the way this
year is going.
>> I hope in about 35 minutes we'll get
some clarity as well. Looking forward to
the conversation just around the corner.
In the next hour we'll catch up with
Peter Cheer of Academy Securities, Jay
Goldberg of Seapport Global and in about
35 minutes from now the US trade
representative Jameson Greer looking
forward to that conversation in just a
moment. And the third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance is just around the corner.
There are elements of disruption that
are permeating the entire technology
sector.
>> Diversification is your best friend.
>> There will be some defensive posturing
in the market.
>> Investors are recognizing they can go
into bonds. It is the counterbalance to
risk.
>> Regime change looks a lot like a counter
trend rally at the start. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores, the price action looks like
this. We're positive by a third of 1% on
the S&P 500, up by point4 on the Nasdaq,
up by 6 on the Russell. A story in the
bond market. We'll talk about the next
10 minutes or so. If there's an economic
boom, why isn't this bond market buying
it? Yields have been falling and we're
near the lows of the year and typically
you'd expect yields up and a steeper
curve if you were having a much better
outlook for the US economy. You'll tie
at the long end of the curve up by two
470 on 30s. Looking ahead to the day
ahead, it is packed with earnings. We'll
hear from Salesforce a little bit later
after the closing bow. Nvidia the main
event for so many of you out there.
>> And there is actually a connection
between these stories, the idea of what
the bond market is saying and Nvidia's
results. There is an existential fear
that is permeated throughout all of
markets that yes, Nvidia is going to
deliver incredible earnings and yes, you
are seeing AI take over in a lot of
different sectors, but you're not seeing
the labor market really reacelerate and
that's been the overall fear. That said,
if Nvidia comes out and shows how they
are delivering and how much they're able
to increase their margins, I mean 76%
margins is just mind-boggling in terms
of the money they are minting, it might
convince people to go back into these
names. I'm looking forward to a video
because for a lot of individuals top of
mind is going to be China. And given the
fact we didn't get a state of the
relationship between Washington and
Beijing last night from the president of
United States who decided to not mention
China directly. The first time since
2005. Last president who didn't do so
was Bush. I think potentially this
individual who's been noted as maybe a
diplomat between these two countries
will give us the outlook on what is
actually going on in China. Are the T
H200s going there? Is there appetite for
that? What's going on with the
administration in terms of export
controls? Maybe we'll get some clarity
this afternoon.
>> Nvidia in the pre-market high by about
3/4 of 1%. We're looking for some
clarity in about 28 minutes from now.
Ambassador Jameson Greer of USR joining
the program to break down just where
tariffs stand. There is some confusion
at the moment. 10% on Friday, 15% on
social media, back to 10% on Monday.
>> I guess it depends what you were paying
attention to, the president's truth or
what the custom borders protection put
out. What the Customs Board of
Protection put out is 10%. The
administration saying we're working on
getting to the president's truth at 15%.
Okay, but when? We need some clarity.
>> Let's get you set up for the next hour
or so. Peter Cher of Academy Securities
joins us following the president's state
of the union address. Jay Goldberg of
Seapport Global with Wall Street bracing
for Nvidia earnings and the US trade
representative Jameson Greer joins us on
the White House tariff push. We begin
this hour with stocks edging Kaya as
investors digest the president's address
last night. Peter CHV Academy writing
the following. I was pleasantly
surprised. He seemed nicer to other
countries and didn't really threaten
embargos or really escalate tariffs.
Pete joins us now for more. Now Pete,
that's a pretty low bar, buddy. Was that
a big takeaway for you?
>> It was. It was kind of, you know, one, I
think the whole thing's a little bit
ridiculous that neither side can, you
know, one side can't stand ever, the
other applauds everything. But yeah, he
was kind of nicer other countries. As
Enry just mentioned, he didn't actually
talk about China. I was a little bit
concerned we could see kind of the
threats of embargos or something else on
tariffs. It seems like they're taking a
pause. Uh maybe we'll hear a little bit
more in half an hour when uh Greer comes
on.
>> Looking forward to that conversation as
well. 30 minutes away 8:30 Eastern time.
Pete, I see reasons for this economy to
do better. I believe they've got time on
their side. We're going to get the tax
refunds. We've already had the rate cuts
and we're seeing a lot of spending
coming from big tech players. But I
respect the bond market just as much.
And this bond market is not buying the
boom. Yields are down near four. The
president's talking about a roaring
economy. Do you see it in fixed income?
I don't see a roaring economy, though I
do think there are two separate things
going on. One is this administration is
keen on getting tens below 4%. I
wouldn't bet against them. So, I think
that's happening. I still think we're
going to see three rate cuts almost
regardless of what the data comes. So, I
think that's playing a little bit in the
bond market away from just the
traditional analysis. Having said that,
I'm concerned about jobs. I'm concerned
about the uncertainty and as we've lost
some of this wealth effect, is the
spending going to be there? Everyone I
talk to, everywhere we look, I think
there's just this hesitancy to spend and
that can be self-fulfilling. So, I'm
really nervous about the economy for the
next few months. Not like that it's
going to roll over, just that we don't
ever really catch fire and at some point
that weighs on itself.
>> And that's the reason why the likes of
TJX are saying the holiday season
probably was the peak and after that
you're going to see some deceleration in
shopping. In other words, what you're
saying is being borne out in some of the
commentary from the earnings. I just
wonder for the path forward, how much
you see AI as part of this story. And I
feel almost uh it feels cliche to talk
about this, but do you really think that
is the driver of the weakness that we're
feeling in the labor market?
>> I still think it is to a large degree.
You know, when I'm looking at my
portfolio, I still think we're going to
see some margin compression from the
companies that were very asset light. Um
you know, big tech companies. And it's
not that they're going to lose to AI
necessarily, but they're going to have
to spend a little bit more possibly to
defend their modes. Maybe they offer
some price concessions. So I think you
see some margin compression there. And I
do like the heavy asset industries,
right? I think anyone who's got a lot of
people, a lot of plant, property,
equipment to move around, they're the
beneficiaries of AI. So I think there's
more room for this kind of rotation
that's started to run. It's not going to
be single every single day like it was
for a while, but that's where we're
moving. We're moving to this kind of
production. What are we making? How do
we get those things there more
efficiently? That's the big beneficiary.
And I think electricity production
continues to grow. I think it's
important to note that there is at least
more discussion in Washington DC around
this percolation of AI and what that
could mean for the labor market. Last
night, President Trump talking about how
the hyperscalers would pay for their
energy use and the buildout of a lot of
their infrastructure. What did you make
of that?
>> One, I think it's fairly smart. When I
go anywhere and talk, if you see the
you're losing the audience, just mention
the price of electricity and everyone is
suddenly engaged. So, the cost of
electricity browns that risk, it's
resonating with voters. So I think
getting these things paid for and it's
not just the production of the
electricity itself or the generation of
the electricity, it's the grid to get it
there. So I think there's going to have
to be a lot of spending on that. I think
that's going to probably be borne a
little bit by the companies that are
building out this, you know, the
hyperscaler industry. So it's probably
again more margin pressure there as you
see them having to support that growth.
I think it's great for the economy. I
think it's great for Americans if we can
get that electricity price under control
because right now that's been the high
one of the highest rising factors in CPI
for the last three years. How would
shareholders you think at these
companies react to that? The president
dictating the need to pay for consumers
electricity prices or subsidize it.
You know,
>> I think like a lot of things they will
attempt to, you know, pay some lip
service around it, figure out what they
can do, what's in within their power and
some of it's legitimate that they want
this and need this themselves, right?
Plugging into the consumer grid opens up
all sorts of problems potentially for
them. So, I think it's actually a
natural fit in some ways, right? You
already saw some of the companies want
to open like three Mile Island uh
nuclear facility. So I think the reality
is when you look at the data center and
AI, electricity is such a key component
of their business. It makes sense for
them to have some sort of vertical
control over it. So I don't think it
plays as bad maybe as some other things
like saying we can't do 10% uh credit
card charges.
>> Peter, I know we said that the president
didn't mention China once, but he did
mention Iran. You have a number of
generals on your board. What's the
thinking right now in terms of what the
president will do? He had a clear red
line last night reiterated that they
cannot get a nuclear weapon.
>> Yeah, I think that's what we're going to
see. We're going to see, I guess they've
been using the frame term we've been
talking about, a couple bloody nose
attacks. So, as things are in position,
we're not sure that everything's still
in position. We might still be a full
week away from being truly in position
to be able to attack and defend any
retaliation, but we will see some
attacks. They will have the minimum
amount of risk possible to US service
people and it would be me meant to send
a message to Iran. We're serious. We
will escalate if necessary, but come to
the table and let's sort this out. So,
we think that's going to occur there.
It's going to occur within the coming
week. Um, and I do think we will be
successful, but in any sort of military
action, there is risk and if we start
losing service people, it could get
sketchy very quickly.
>> Pete, what is success? Because arguably,
we've already done what you just
described. We've done it once already.
>> I think this time is actually getting
them to the table and getting a deal,
not this postponement, second, third,
fourth, or fifth round. It's like here's
a piece of paper. Let's sign this and
let's move on. I think that's where
we're at and it has to be done within,
you know, we're guessing two to three
weeks. If if we don't get there within
two to three weeks, that's when we see
the real escalation.
>> Watch this space on Iran. Pete, just to
turn to the earnings a little bit later.
Nvidia, Salesforce, earnings matter, but
at the moment, Pete, earnings don't
matter right now. It feels like this
equity market is trading on something
different that we're going through a
repricing associated with AI. JP Morgan
and Goldman, others too talking about
so-called halo, heavy assets, low
obsolescence. This came from Goldman
recently. the market rewarding capacity,
networks, infrastructure, engineering
complexity, assets that are costly to
replicate and less exposed to
technological obsolescence. Pete, are we
just going on a repricing sector to
sector, company to company based on
that? And a lot of the price action
we're seeing is just divorce from
traditional indicators.
>> One, I think so. Although that sounds
like a very long way for Goldman to say
production for security or prosecing
because those have been the exact
industries we think the US government's
going to support and capital is going to
flow into. Yeah, I think for Salesforce
what we're looking to see is is there
any sign of slowdown? Do they have to
spend more money to protect their moat
or are they comfortable? And I think
that could really help the software side
of things. Nvidia again, how many chips
are they selling? How profitable is
that? The news is going to be great out
of Nvidia. The question is, is it going
to be great enough to kind of move
things around? And personally, I am
looking to see where they come with
Intel, right? That's been one of the,
you know, possibilities for Intel is
doing more with Nvidia. Last time around
and earnings and things like that, it
didn't go well for Intel. Could that be
a turning point for Intel? And again,
that fits to me that definition of, you
know, production for security where a
company like Nvidia kind of looks to do
more with Intel.
>> Pete, you tell him, you were first.
Peter Cheer of Academy. Pete, it's good
to see you. Thank you as always. Pete
Goldman, JP Morgan, all with that same
version. Pete was very early.
>> I love it. He's saying it's not Halo,
it's proc. get with the program, to get
with my marketing. He's been doing this
and trying to pitch us for quite a
while. So, kudos to you.
>> There's a big AI flavor to a lot of what
we've seen recently, and it raises the
question just how much earnings are
going to matter. Earnings have been
great. They've been really pretty good
through the first quarter earnings
season for Q4. What we've seen over the
last few weeks has been pretty decent, I
would say. And yet, you're not seeing a
rally at the index level. Why? Because
we're trading on something else.
>> We're trading on hopes, beliefs, future
projections, fiction in some cases. This
idea of what is the future growth
pattern? What is the future margins of
industries that are going to be
completely changed by technology? This
is use your imagination season and
that's the reason why a lot of people
are saying this is the strangest season
they've ever seen in markets.
>> A lot of puzzles to figure out. Let's
give an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump
delivering a record 1 hour and 47 minute
State of the Union address last night.
The speech was heavy on his economic
policy with the president touting
falling food and gas prices. Trump
didn't offer many new policy proposals,
though he did promise a $1,000
retirement savings match for workers
without 401ks.
New documents revealing Jeffrey Epstein
maintained deep ties with JP Morgan
Chase years after the bank officially
cut him loose. Records showing Epstein
used one of his trusts to wire $150,000
to his girlfriend's brokerage accounts
at the bank just 6 months before his
death. And General Atlantic is said to
be selling a stake in Bite Dance that
would value the company at $550 billion.
Reuters reporting the potential sale
would be the first since Tik Tok and
Bite Dance closed a deal to transfer
part of their US operations to American
investors back in January. Neither
company responded to requests for
comment. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the Morning
Cause. Plus, we'll catch up with Jake
Goldberg of Seapport Global with Wall
Street bracing for Nvidia earnings from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Overall,
you know, we expect another beat and
raise quite simply from uh from Nvidia
here. I mean, that and that really
shouldn't be the surprise. That really
should be the base case if there's any
sort of potential risk out there. It
might be on the margin side, but
nonetheless, I mean, the trajectory is
still very good. We think they sustain a
mid70s gross margin there on top of the,
you know, the the elevated growth rates
that you're going to see here. That was
Angelo Zenino of CF going into the big
earnings report after the closing bell.
Nvidia just around the corner. We'll
have another preview for you in just a
moment. The scores into the opening bell
look like this. An hour and about 15
minutes away. That cash open is just
around the corner. Futures are positive
by a third of 1% on the S&P and the
NASDAQ up by 0.5. The Russell high up by
0.7. That's the price action. Let's get
you some morning calls. First up, UBS
upgrading IBM to neutral calling its
riskreward ratio more balanced. That
stock is doing better. getting hammered
earlier this week. Stock is up in a
pre-market by about 1.7%. Your next call
from Evercore downgrading work data in
line, noting AI investments will limit
operating leverage. That stock is down
by more than 9% in the pre-market. And
finally, Oppenheimer upgrading Oracle to
outperform, believing it can be an AI
winner. That name is up this morning by
2%. Let's stick with AI. The next test
on deck with Nvidia earnings after the
closing bow. Jay Goldberg of Seapport
Global remaining the sole sell on the
stock writing, "We think Nvidia will
meet expectations. It is hard to see
them delivering much upside." Jay joins
us now for more. Jay, welcome to the
show. Still the big bear based on the
recommendation. Let's get into it.
What's going to cap the upside from
here?
>> I think they're they're limited on
capacity, right? We know that the
industry is constrained across
semiconductors. Uh the big problem for
Nvidia is what the capacity they can get
out of TSMC both in manufacturing and
packaging. Uh and I think that sort of
caps their upside until maybe later this
year when we get a little bit more
capacity out of TSMC.
>> Well, Jay, beyond next year, over the
next several years, is this going to
remain an issue? Is this something we
can look through at the moment?
>> I I think we're we're in a somewhat
historic peak of capacity constraints
right now for across semiconductors,
right? every sort of nook and cranny you
look into in the industry, things we
haven't thought about in years like
substrates and and and photoresist
chemicals, everything is in in shortage
right now. Um, and that that's going to
last, some of those are going to last
through the year. Memory looks like it's
going to be constrained through the
year, but semiconductors are cyclical
and eventually things will ease. Uh, I
probably next year, but who knows when
that's going to be.
>> Well, Jay, that's the big question
because you are the soul cell. There's
four holds. There's 78 bytes on this
name. What are the 78 getting wrong?
>> I I think that the the difficulty Nvidia
has is it's gotten so big and for it to
keep momentum going. The the deals that
we're looking at getting these data
centers built to the scale that is going
to s, you know, be sufficient for their
numbers. That's going to be challenging,
right? We're already sort of starting to
see the stress on the the capital market
side. It's getting harder and harder to
fund these these data centers and the
data centers are just going to get
bigger and bigger and Nvidia needs that
to keep the numbers going and so I think
that it's just getting harder and harder
for Nvidia to sell.
>> How much of this Jay is also uh their
competitive advantage is getting eaten
into by some of the other players. I see
you've got a buy on Broadcom, on Intel,
and I just wonder how much you see a lot
of not just hyperscalers, but other
companies look for cheaper, more
efficient alternatives as they plan to
scale up.
>> Yeah, if we're looking at it over a
multi-year time frame, the competition
is definitely increasing. Right.
Yesterday, we had a deal between AMD and
Meta. Uh there's lots of puts and takes
on that deal, but the bottom line is it
really firmly establishes AMD as a as a
credible second source to to Nvidia. Uh
you mentioned all the hyperscalers.
Google's doing very well with its TPUs.
All the others are going to try their
own hand in it this year as well. Um
it's there there just a lot of there's a
lot of competition out there and some of
them are, you know, they're going to get
they're going to get in. It's just going
to take a little bit of time, but
they're slowly eating it away at
Nvidia's moat. Jay, is there anything
that Nvidia could say today after the
bell in the New York Time that would
change your mind and that would actually
make you more bullish on a name at a
time where there's $650 billion being
spent on the build out for just four
hyperscalers just this year alone?
>> I mean, I'm I'm negative on Invidia's
near-term prospects, right? I think
they're a good company. They make great
products. I've never doubted that. if
they could somehow tell me that they've
they've magically gotten a lot more
capacity and they're going to greatly
increase revenue next year or or this
later this year. You know, those are the
kinds of things I'm looking at, but
there's lots of other things to offset
that. I'm still worried about memory,
the impact of memory prices on Nvidia's
margins. Uh I think that's right. Memory
is short everywhere. That's going to
weigh on them. I'm also worried about
their balance sheet. They're doing an
awful lot to keep this AI trade going.
uh and and like everybody sort of all
the major players in this are starting
to use their balance sheet and
offbalance sheet metrics. Uh I think
that's you know th those concerns are
out there too.
>> Jay, in October we heard from Jensen
Wong saying that the Reuben chips and
the Blackwell chips are on track to
generate half a trillion dollars in
revenue over the next several quarters
which was quicker than many had
expected. Why is that not enough for you
to potentially have a different look on
where the stock is trading short term?
I think a I think a lot of that's
already reflected in numbers. I mean, my
my take all along this has been Nvidia
just can't outperform the broader sector
and I think we've seen that play out
over the last six years. And I I don't
excuse me six quarters. I don't see
anything sort of changing that
meaningfully in the next few quarters.
>> Jay, I want to talk about another name
that you cover. I want to finish on
Apple. Jay, it's really interesting that
Apple is sitting out the massive capex
spend that we see from the other tech
giants. Now the stock is kind of holding
in there. It's not doing anything
spectacular. But what is the bet that
that company is t taking by choosing to
sit out of this massive spending?
>> I I think the gains of AI are going to
acrue to those companies that know
exactly what they're doing with it. The
expense is so high. You want to be
really targeted and very judicious in
your spend. It's expensive to build
these things. And I think Apple will
eventually participate more fully and
for the moment they're happy to pay to
make use of other people's AI buildout.
And I think that that works for now.
They need a they need a better AI
strategy. I think they're in the process
of finding it. Um but for the moment
they you know they don't need to build
their own data centers when they can use
Google's.
>> What do you think full participation is
going to look like?
>> I think we need some compelling use
cases. We need we need Apple to come up
with some interesting ways to actually
make AI useful and interesting to
people. I think that's what's really
lacking right now in the AI space is is
sort of broad-based consumer
applications. I think we're starting to
see that in some of these weird little
side projects like OpenClaw, but Apple
needs to productize that in a big way.
They don't quite have the capability to
do that. I'm also not convinced they
know exactly what that looks like.
>> They were criticized quite heavily, as
you know, Jay, last year for not
participating fully. And I wonder if
this market is transitioning to a point
where we might start rewarding Apple for
not participating fully. Are we close to
a moment like that?
>> I I don't I it's mixed. I mean, we saw
this last quarter when when Facebook and
Meta reported at the same day.
Microsoft's numbers were were not great.
Meta's numbers were were pretty good and
the stocks got, you know, one went down
a lot, the other went up a lot. Uh I
think investors do care now about how
people are spending AI. That's a big
change from where we were a year ago. Uh
I I think there's a lot more picking and
choosing who's who's doing well with AI
and who's not. And so I do think
investors care about this a lot.
>> I know that you've been kind of bearish
on the story as everybody else gets
super hyped up about how AI is going to
transform everything and that spending
can be essentially infinite with
infinite gains. I'm just wondering if
this caution that you're seeing right
now as you see this sort of rolling ball
of fear impact a number of different
sectors if you're getting more bullish
overall about how this is going to be
deployed and a rationalization of some
of the new technology.
>> My my take has always been that AI is
very very important and very powerful
and has a lot of potential but that it's
going to take a few years at least for
us to understand how to adopt it and
what it's going to be used for. And so I
think we don't fully understand where
we're going to deploy AI in the broader
economy. And as we learn that there are
going to be winners and losers. I don't
think we're going to wipe out the entire
software industry, but I do think there
will be share a change in share among
players and there'll be a lot of new
entrance in a lot of new categories. And
so we're we're I think we collectively
are figuring that out now and we're
seeing that in the market. I don't think
anyone has a really clear idea on that.
Uh but I do think we're finally starting
to see signs of like real real utility
for AI uh that hasn't been apparent
before.
>> Do you think that the disruption is
going to be as aggressive as some
projections have it? Matt Mesh of UBS
creating a lot of headlines this morning
with his 15% possible worstcase default
rate in private credit tied to some of
this disruption. Does that seem
realistic to you?
I think the the time span of the capital
markets and the time span of technology
adoption are in very different clock
cycles, right? The technology is out
there. It's going to come it's going to
take it's going to be very quick by
technology standards. Uh but that's
going to be very long by capital market
standards. And you know, John, I'm like
you. I respect the bond markets a lot.
Uh there they're clear there are clear
problems in how some of these data
center financings are getting done. It's
getting very very heavily financially
engineered and I think that's going to
be a problem in the near term. If if you
you know taking off my Wall Street hat
and putting on my technology tinfoil
hat, I think there are incredible things
coming out there for AI. Just it's not
going to be quite on the sort of Wall
Street time scale.
>> Jake, appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. Jake Goldberg there of Seport with
one eye very much on the bond market
even from the technology probe.
>> Yeah, I mean look, this to me is really
the key question. both the bond market
from the government bond market and then
the bond market when it comes to private
credit and when it comes to uh high
yield credit you do start to see some
concerns percolating in mostly
concentrated in private credit and BDC's
and some of the public representations
of that market nonetheless very much
wondering when there's going to be push
back from credit investors about some of
these plans and exactly how they're
going to be paid for
>> the fate of this massive buildout right
now is in the hands of fixed income as
it often is coming up on the program
we're going to catch up with this guy.
An important conversation with the US
trade representative Jameson Greer on
the White House tariff push. Looking
forward to catching up with the
ambassador in just a moment. Plus, Yihir
is going to drop by with your morning
movers. Lows sliding as profit guidance
falls short. That name is down in the
pre-market by 3%. Speaking of the bond
market, yields higher just a little bit
this morning. No drama. Higher by two
basis points on 10 to just north of 4%.
on 30s up by two to 417 at the front end
of the curve as this Federal Reserve
sets us up for a prolonged pause on
interest rates. Yields high by two basis
points getting close to 350. From New
York City, you're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning and welcome to the program.
The opening bell about 60 minutes away.
Equity futures firm up by a third of 1%.
Outperformance on the small caps. The
Russell this morning high by 0.7 with
your morning movers. Yahihara has more.
Hi Yhara.
>> Hi John. After Home Depot's lows giving
us another reminder that the housing
market is not rebounding anytime soon.
Rates are still too high. Homes too
expensive. So people are not moving and
not taking on those big projects. So
that showed up in Lowe's results. Shares
are down 3%. Meanwhile, HP shares also
falling in the pre-market, down 6% after
warning profits will likely land in the
lower end of its forecast. The company
saying a demand for its PCs, AI PCs uh
held high, but that momentum not enough
to counter sharply higher memory costs
plus tariff headwinds. And we are also
seeing uh circle internet shares soaring
18% now in the pre-market after the
company behind the USDC stable coin
posted a big profit jump and despite
last year's crypto meltdown uh demand
for that dollar pegged coin held up.
John
>> Yhara thank you. Thanks for the update.
Let's turn to tariffs. The big story the
president doubling down on his trade
agenda.
>> An unfortunate rul ruling from the
United States Supreme Court. Almost all
countries and corporations want to keep
the deal that they already made. The
legal power that I, as president, have
to make a new deal could be far worse
for them.
>> The president pledging to use
alternative legal authorities to impose
new duties following the Supreme Court's
ruling against the tariff agenda. I'm
very pleased to say they're making some
time for us this morning as the US trade
representative Jameson Greer. Ambassador
Greer, welcome to the program, sir. We
need to spend some time with you talking
about the next year, particularly the
next 150 days. But there is some
intrigue over the last week. Let's talk
about the last week and particularly on
Friday. There is now a new baseline
tariff of 10%. Why did we start with 10%
when the president appears to want 15.
>> So the authority that we're using right
now, uh, which is a temporary 150day
authority, uh, that that's 5 months, uh,
150 days. And we have a lot of countries
out there that for a long time have had
10%. We have some that have higher at
15%. And so our goal with all of this is
to have continuity. Uh so we want to
have the 10% and it'll and we're looking
about how to implement the 15% that the
president indicated because we want to
have continuity. We want the countries,
we want the companies, we want people to
understand that what we were doing
before we're going to reconstruct with
alternative tools because we want to
keep going, maintain the policy. will
just have a change in the legal
implementing authority.
>> And Besley, you're giving me the
impression that this is still under
conversation. Negotiation perhaps
internally when the president was pretty
explicit over the weekend in his own
words. I as the president of the United
States of America will be effective
immediately raising the 10% worldwide
tariff on countries, many of which have
been ripping the US off for decades
without retribution to the fully allowed
and legally tested 15% level. How can we
sort of explain that which is rather
explicit with the more nuance term
you're offering this morning?
>> So, we'll put out a supplemental
proclamation that the president will
sign uh going to 15% where appropriate.
Remember before the Supreme Court struck
down the tariffs, a lot of these
countries had agreed to have tariffs, US
tariffs on them of you know 18%, 19%,
20%. Uh so going up to 15% uh for them
at least temporarily it's better than
the deal that they had. And so the
president wants to make sure again that
we have continuity in this process that
uh folks who acknowledge they had giant
trade surpluses with us, they had unfair
trading practices affecting their trade
uh and who agreed agreed to pay the
tariff that they actually are in a
position to do it uh until we can get
the the more durable and long-asting uh
measures in place.
>> Ambassador Gray, when you say when
appropriate, is that this week or are
you looking to do this after the 150
days runs out of the 10% level we
currently have?
Oh, it it'll it'll be it'll be in coming
days. It's soon, right? I mean, the
president put out this direction to your
point. Uh and so that all of that is is
in development. So, that will be soon.
Again, the idea is to establish a
through line from the policy that um
that the president has implemented
successfully over the past year and
continue it over this 150 days and as we
build up uh appropriate tariff rates
using other other investigations and
means.
>> So, when you do raise the 122 tariff to
15%. What's your argument going to be to
the Europeans? Because this is stacking
on top of most favored nation rates.
That means that for the Europeans that
agreed on a 15%, the highest level they
would agree to accept, this new rate for
some products will be above 15%. What's
going to be the argument to Brussels?
>> So, so I've been in constant contact uh
with with my counterparts in Brussels,
the UK, and elsewhere. And the the way
to think about this is every country has
domestic procedures that they need to go
through to come into compliance with the
deal. With Brussels, we gave them uh a
good rate on cars. Uh that stays the
same. Uh with with the UK, we gave them
a quot on cars. We gave them a a quota
of beef to import uh duty-free. That
stays the same. So, a lot of these parts
stay the same. But just like Brussels
hasn't fully implemented its deal or the
UK hasn't fully implemented its deal, we
also need a couple months now uh to have
some domestic procedures because the
Supreme Court uh struck down all of
this. It it's pretty normal when you
have a trade deal to implement over
time. Most trade deals take years to
implement. We're on the fast track and
and so we're just going to have to have,
you know, a couple three months to make
sure that we rejigger uh the tariffs in
a way that comply with our end of the
deal. And we expect the EU and the UK to
hold up their end of the bargain, too.
But does this new 122 15% now basically
break the EU trade agreement given where
most favored nation products are and
those rates?
>> So right now as we talked about 10%'s in
place, there will be a proclamation
raising it to 15% where appropriate. And
so once that comes out, I'm happy to
come back on and explain how that accom
how that might accommodate other
countries where there's a deal.
>> Will any of the rates on any countries
stay at 10%.
Well, we we want to make through that we
go through the legal process and we get
out a proclamation. Uh again, this is
anytime we put on a tariff, we're going
to have foreign interests who want to
who want to bring it down. So, people
are going to sue us. So, I'm not going
to get ahead of the president. I'm not
going to get ahead of the White House
council and all these folks who are
implementing this. Uh so, when that
comes out, they'll be very clear uh what
and how and why.
>> Ambassador, in some of your comments, it
seems like you're suggesting that the
rate could go above 15%. And I just am
curious what exactly uh you're planning
to use. It's been discussed that section
301 in particular will be used to go
after places like China, which it has
been used for before. Is that still in
the cards?
>> Yes. So section 301 is a country
specific tool and it allows the
president to investigate unfair trading
practices by countries. And again, this
is what we've been getting at over the
past year as we've concluded deals with
with over a dozen countries. They have
agreed to uh eliminate unfair barriers
to our trade, take down their tariffs,
um you know, eliminate, you know, fake
uh regulatory barriers, etc. And so we
can actually conduct these
investigations under section 301 on a
country bycountry basis, figure out
exactly what they're doing that's been
so problematic and and negotiate with
those countries, but also impose a
tariff as enforcement uh to make sure
that they eliminate those practices. uh
you know, China certainly, but also
other countries, Vietnam, Southeast
Asia, the Europeans, uh potentially. But
the point is to recreate the the policy
that we've developed over the past year
to give continuity and be able to be in
a position where we can honor the deals,
but also have enforcement available.
That's the only reason why these
countries have made all these
concessions because they know the
president's willing to enforce and
willing to raise tariffs if he needs to.
>> Have you started the 301 investigations?
So there are a couple that are that have
already started. Uh we opened a section
301 investigation on Brazil a few months
ago. Uh we opened up one on China a few
months ago about compliance with the
phase one deal. And we have a a you know
many others that we are preparing right
now. we expect to launch in the coming
days and weeks such as related to forced
labor in supply chains, industrial
excess capacity or unfair trading
practices with respect to fishing or
seafood or rice or you know subsidies
for certain products and that kind of
thing.
>> So ambassador you were potentially
planning to use 301 because you when I
spoke to you and your colleagues in the
past there was this concern Supreme
Court could strike down AIPA. So why
didn't you do these investigations from
the very beginning?
AIPA was the most appropriate tool to
use because we are facing an emergency
in this country. In the five years prior
to President Trump's second term, our US
trade deficit exploded by 40% to reach
$1.2 trillion, the largest trade deficit
in human history. And the trade deficit
was a a manifestation of many things,
but one of them is a lot of offshoring
of production to other countries uh jobs
and manufacturing that went to China,
Vietnam, Mexico, etc. uh to the point
where our defense industrial base was
challenged, our manufacturing base and
jobs were hollowed out. And this was an
emergency and is an emergency. And so
the president used an emergency power to
move very, very quickly. Um section 301
and section 232, some of our alternative
tools, they take more time, they take
more process, they're very effective,
but they didn't have the flexibility and
the speed we needed to really out the
gate make these points, get the deals
with the countries, and now we can go
back and make them firm. Ambassador
Canada and Mexico of course will be down
separately. But does the president feel
constrained by USMCA?
>> Um so I I wouldn't say feel feel
constrained. We're in the middle of a of
a of a review that we have to conduct in
the United States. I'm in contact with
my counterparts from both Mexico and
Canada. There are things in USMCA that
that make sense that you know don't get
a lot of news because they function
fine. But there are a lot of things
where we don't have the type of market
access we want whether it's in goods or
services. Uh we have Mexico that
historically over the past few years has
been discriminating against US energy
producers and service providers. We have
Canada that limits our access for dairy
has has taken American wine and spirits
off its shelves. So we have a lot of
issues like that. Uh we also have
concerns about trans shipment through
Canada and Mexico of goods from third
countries coming through uh and
benefiting from duty-free treatment from
USMCA. And so we want to make sure that
if there's an agreement with either of
these countries, uh, that it really, you
know, benefits these countries and not
third countries that might use Canada or
or Mexico as an export hub into the
United States.
>> I'm sure you followed the story. Josh
Winkrove and the team down in Bloomberg
News in Washington DC reporting more
recently that the president is privately
musing about exiting the North American
trade pact. What can you share with us
this morning about the prospect of that
happening?
>> Well, it's not just privately. He talks
about it publicly, too. It's not a
secret. I don't think that's super newsy
to be honest. The president has been
really clear this year that he's
concerned with the performance of USMCA.
He doesn't feel uh that we should just
rubber stamp uh this agreement. I'm
having separate negotiations with Canada
and Mexico because our relationships
with those countries are so different.
Uh and so I think we'll have over the
over the coming year conversations.
Maybe we'll have separate protocols with
Canada and Mexico that we you know tack
on to USMCA. We we just have to fix some
of the gaps in that. The president has
already taken action on autos, which is
a big problem. We've seen a huge influx
of imports of autos from Mexico over the
past few years when really we want to be
making those things here, and we're
already seeing Stellantis, GM, and
others announce new lines and using up
excess open capacity in the United
States to make more cars here. So, we're
already seeing a good effect from the
president's trade policies with respect
to Canada and Mexico.
>> So, sounds like a review and improve is
the path you're on. Ambassador Greer,
when it comes to the 122s, are you
prepared potentially for suits as well
using that legal authority?
>> Well, any legal authority the president
uses to impose tariffs, uh, you know,
foreign interests are going to sue,
right? People who are importing from
foreign companies and foreign workers,
they're going to sue. So, of of course,
uh, we expect that uh that that comes
along. However, I would say that the
lower courts and even the Supreme Court
expressed that 122 is a is an authority
that the president can use. Uh we put
out the proclamation last week that
lines out exactly how the president can
use this and why he's using it and the
declarations he's making. Are people
going to sue? I I expect they will. Uh
we feel confident in the case.
>> In July of last year though, the
president's own lawyers said that 122
wasn't applicable. They said in the this
is the appeal of the Court of
International Trade decision. They said
basically nor does it have any obvious
application here 122 where the concerns
the president identified in declaring an
emergency arise from trade deficits
which are conceptually distinct from
balance of payment deficits. So why do
you think it works now when it didn't
work over the summer?
>> So so I will say first of all that I
think that there there's more context to
that statement and further a balance of
payments is not identical to a trade
deficit. People have kind of set up this
straw man that's just wrong. If you if
people go back and actually read the
proclamation that went out, it talks
about the actual balance of payments
deficit. Uh it refers to the current
account. Now the trade deficit is a big
portion of the current account. So it's
certainly is a driver of it. Uh but we
also talk about things like our net
investment income position uh where
we're 26 trillion in the whole. Uh so
there are variety of things that
contribute to a balance of payments
deficit. And so folks who are out there
with this kind of over simple, you know,
straw man argument that we're just
equating a trade deficit to a balanced
payments deficit, they're just wrong.
They don't even understand. I don't
think they've read the proclamation.
>> Ambassador, can we finish on the trade
deficit widened recently? And just to
wrap up the conversation, help explain
to us what the metric for success is
actually going to be for the
administration to demonstrate to the
American public that this effort is
actually working.
>> Sure. So, so when the president put his
trade program into place starting in
April, every month from April through
December 2025, the trade deficit goods
went down yearon-year. Uh that's exactly
what happened. So from April to
December, the trade deficit in goods
went down by 17% 17%. When we look at,
you know, is the trade policy working,
we're looking at the direction, the
trend in the trade deficit. So that's
going the right way. Uh we're looking at
real wages. Are they going up? Are are
people being paid more to produce here?
and they are uh we have uh average
weekly earnings are up 4.4% over the
year and we're looking at what's
happening with manufacturing and we're
seeing a lot more purchases of capital
goods. We're seeing starts on factories
and so that's going the right direction.
We're seeing productivity in
manufacturing surging. So all of that's
going the right direction and and we're
seeing things like you know GE has
announced you know another $3 billion
worth of investment a thousand jobs
across five states Georgia, Tennessee
etc. So we're seeing it in the data and
we're seeing it uh in the actual um you
know expansion of manufacturing in
America.
>> Ambassador and you've got to run. Thanks
for making some time for us. Look
forward to catching up again soon. Thank
you sir. Thank you very much. The US
trade representative Jameson Greer on
metrics for success after that trade
deficit was much wider than expected at
the previous read.
>> Yeah. So far it isn't necessarily the
trade deficit. It's things like wages.
It's things like what kind of plants are
agreed up upon in terms of new
investments to the United States. and he
pointed to those saying they're
expecting to remain in place. Still a
lot of uncertainty though going forward
about exactly how some of these trade
deals are going to get executed
>> and in the coming days says it's going
to be 15% and this is where the
consternation is over in Europe and the
European Union. In the UK they already
have a 10% deal. So they're saying 15%
is actually worse than we negotiated
last summer. And then for the European
Union, the fact of the matter is for
some certain products having a 15% 122
stacks on top of already most favored
nation product and they said they will
not ratify the deal if that's the case.
So this is why this man potentially is
getting very frustrated is going to be
on a lot of calls with his counterparts.
Yeah, it's confusing.
>> This gets messy and it's going to take
some time to figure out and that work is
happening in real time. Thanks to the
ambassador for making some time for us
this morning. Equity futures on the S&P
positive here by 0.3%. Equities are
going into the open and bow with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more. Hey
Yhara.
>> Hi John. In his State of the Union
address, President Donald Trump praising
the operation in Venezuela that captured
former presidents Nicolas Maduro. The
president saying the US has received
more than 80 million barrels of oil from
Venezuela in the last month. He also
awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor
to one of the helicopter pilots involved
in the raid.
The family of Nancy Guthrie is offering
a reward of up to $1 million for
information leading to her recovery 25
days after she was taken from her home.
The family is also donating $500,000 to
the National Center for missing and
exploited children. President Guthrie
made a direct appeal to anyone who may
have knowledge of the case to come
forward. And Warner Brothers Discovery
says a new $31 a share buyout offer from
Paramount's Guidance could lead to a
better deal than its existing agreement
with Netflix. In a statement, Warner
says it's not withdrawing its
recommendation that investors support
the Netflix bid. It says the sweet and
paramount offer, however, does meet the
threshold for further talks. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Never ended story. Yhara, thank you. How
sick is everyone of that story? Just
wrap it up.
>> Honestly, the more I see this story, the
more I think more money, more problems.
I mean, at a certain point, they're just
trying to up the cost. Up the cost, and
then President Trump gets in the
>> I just hope that means more films.
>> Ellison, that's not likely.
>> Wasn't Ellison at the State of the Union
last night.
>> David Ellison was a guest of Senator
Lindsey Graham.
>> There you go.
>> Very interesting.
>> Very close to Republicans. We'll see how
this turns out. Up next on the program,
we'll set you up for the day ahead.
Plus, Bloomberg's Ed Lllo previewing the
main event this afternoon. Nvidia
earnings after the closing bow. Ed up
next.
We have a lot of countries out there
that for a long time have had 10%. We
have some that have higher at 15%. And
so our goal with all of this is to have
continuity. We want the countries, we
want the companies, we want people to
understand that what we were doing
before, we're going to reconstruct with
alternative tools.
>> So that was the US trade representative
Jameson Greer. Ambassador Greer doing
his best to make this simple, but it's
complex and it's difficult to
communicate to people right now. A lot
of people are confused after the ruling
on Friday where we are, where we're
going, where we're going to be 12 months
out. And a lot of that, I mean, to be
fair, is directly from the president
because it came at 10% and then the next
day we got a truth social at 15%. Then
the order actually went into practice at
10% and now we're trying to understand
exactly what it is, what it's going to
be, and how it's going to affect
negotiations with countries around the
world.
>> Make it a series of investigations. It
was almost cleaner with AIP in many
ways, which is why they went in that
direction.
>> Exactly. So now a question of the
uncertainty weighing on potential
employment, on potential business plans,
and this is what economists are looking
for.
>> The trading diary looks like this this
morning. Big day coming up later on
today. Lots of Fed speak Barkin Schmidt
Musulum after the market close. The big
one results from Nvidia. But keep an eye
on this one too. Earnings from
Salesforce tomorrow. Another round of
claims plus Fed Governor Bowman
testifying to the Senate and US Iran
nuclear talks restarting in Geneva and
going into the weekend. One more data
point for you on Friday. PPI data. Let's
turn back to that big story. The main
event, earnings from the world's largest
company. Bloomberg estimates projecting
Nvidia's free cash flow to surge to
record highs. Ed Lllo joins us now for
more. Ed, looking forward to your
coverage today, sir. What stands out for
you?
>> Yeah, it's the ultimate sentiment lever
for the AI trade, right? Where the
market goes into this and wants CEO
Jensen Wong with the words that he
chooses to project confidence. But
actually if you look at the forecasts
for for topline growth what what the
hope is for the guide for the current
period the fiscal first quarter they've
set themselves a really high bar right
the data center business continues to
grow they've given quite advanced notice
on the roadmap for next generation high
performance compute systems and they've
not yet really tapped into China so all
of that stuff's on deck but you know for
all the numbers I'm very happy to go
through them always it really does come
down to what the what the main man says
We don't have a ton of time to go
through all the numbers, Ed, but I am
just interested in one specific angle.
The diplomat, the diplomat Jensen and
his ability to stay close to China and
stay close to the US. How's that working
out?
>> Yeah. So, I mean, Nvidia's guided that
nothing will show up in the fiscal
fourth quarter from China. But, you
know, he's continued in the interim to
walk in front of cameras and talk about
how important it is to do business in a
market which dominates AI research and
where a lot of the engineers are with we
are an American company and we abide by
American laws. And actually, nothing's
really changed in that other than at CES
at the very start of the year. He he
couldn't resist the urge to say, "We'd
given you this forecast that over five
fiscal quarters, we'd hit $500 billion
of sales for our current and next
generation systems." But I think it
could be bigger because China might come
into play. You know, he told Bloomberg
Xian King that pretty explicitly. And so
in the interim, he's continued to do
that. You know, meet with people that
are important both in China and the
United States, but then formally say,
"Here's our position. We're an American
company and we'll do as we're told."
>> Ed, good luck today. Thank you, buddy.
As always, Ed Lllo of Bloomberg. He'll
catch up with the team on Bloom
Technology in about two hours from now.
And then later on this afternoon, it's
the main event. It's the earnings report
from Jensen and the team.
>> So, I've been trying to think through
what the surprises could be. Number one
surprise, big investment in anthropic or
withdrawing cash from OpenAI. Big
question in that drama. Second question,
not the saying that they are. I mean,
I'm just trying to make it spicy. I
mean, let's talk about the drama that
could happen uh after the bell. Second
question, capex, right? How much are
they planning on that? Third of all, how
high are their constraints? This is
something that we were hearing about
earlier. And then four, how much is
attention going to be diverted to
Salesforce? the idea that this actually
could suck the oxygen out of the room
even though it's much smaller beast just
because of all the drama around
software. I want Jensen Wang to answer
questions about Blackwell and how much
China potentially relied on Blackwell
chips to train Deep Seek and what are
the conversations he's having right now
regarding China and how much his
technology is leaking to Beijing.
>> I remember that statement from a year
ago. There were two words in it that
just stood out for me and I queried
those words at the time. Export
compliant. They said it was export
compliant. How did they know?
>> Well, I don't think they knew in terms
of if it was export compliant if it was
a Blackwell chip. Maybe they thought it
was export compliant because they
thought they were using a lesser version
of an Nvidia chip. But to be honest, I
don't know, and I hope he can answer
this.
>> Nvidia up in the pre-market up by 0.9%.
That story has stalled. That rally has
stalled over the past three or four
months. That's notable given the amount
of spending we're seeing from elsewhere.
Look out for the moves a little bit
later on this afternoon. Coming up
tomorrow, full reaction. We'll catch up
with Ed Yardeni of Yardeni Research,
Emily Roland of John Hancock, the Lumen
Technology CEO, Kate Johnson joined us,
and John Bilter of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning to you all. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.